you know , one of the great nographs in traveling , and one of the joys in ethnography is to live with the people who can remember the old days , and the ones who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rain , taste them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
just knowing that jaguar shamanas are still traveling beyond the milky way , or the meaning of the myths of the elders of the inuit still matter , or that in the himalayas , the buddhist still trace the breath of the dharma means calling the central revelation of anthropology into mind , which is the idea that the world in which we live , not only exists in an absolute sense , but as a model of reality , as a consequence of a certain set of possibilities that successfully chose our generations .
and of course , we all share the same adaptation needs .
we &apos;re all born . we bring children to the world .
we go through initiation rituals .
we need to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so we shouldn &apos;t surprise ourselves that we all sing , dancing and art .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique sound of the song , the rhythm of the dance in every culture .
it doesn &apos;t matter whether it &apos;s the penan in the forests of borneo , or the voodoo acolyths in haiti , or the warriors in the cairut-desert of northern kenya , the curoculum in the andean , or a caravan in the middle of the sahara . this is the collapse i happened to be traveling to the desert a month ago , or even a yak shepherd hanging on the qomolma desert , everest , the mother of the world .
all these people teach us that there are other existentials , different ways of thinking , different ways of orienting the earth .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
together , the world &apos;s countless cultures form a web of spiritual and cultural life that wraps the earth and for the good of the earth as important as the biological web that you know as a biosphere .
you can think of this cultural web as an ethnosphere , and ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been defined by the human imagination since the beginning of consciousness .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we are capable of as an amazingly wiser species .
and just like the biosphere was removed , this was happening with the ethnosphere -- only at greater speed .
no biologist , for example , would argue that 50 percent or more of all species are just about to die out , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenarium in the field of biodiversity -- is barely what we know to be the most optimistic scenarium in the field of cultural diversity .
and the key indicator of this is the extinction of languages .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
now a language is not just the sum of the vocabulary or a series of grammacreature .
a language is a expression of the human mind .
it &apos;s a means where the soul of a certain culture finds access to the material world .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
and of those 6,000 languages , today , while we &apos;re sitting in monterey , half of them are no longer whispered into the ears of children .
they &apos;re not taught anymore . that means that when nothing &apos;s done , they &apos;re actually dead .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by silence , to be one of the last people talking to your language , have no way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
and yet , this terrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an older person dies and takes the last syllable of an old language into the grave .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; would the world not be a better place if we all talked just one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let &apos;s be yoruba . let them be cantonesic .
let &apos;s be willii . &quot;
and then you would suddenly recognize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
so today , i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try to understand what &apos;s actually gone wrong .
now there are some of us who kind of forget that when i say &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i mean really different possibilities of being .
for example , take this child of barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that they came up mythologically with the milky way across the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
this is a people who are not cognitively distinguished between the colors of blue and green , because the sky scene is equated to the forest that people depend on .
they have a strange language and a marriage rule called the linguistic exogamy : you have to marry somebody who speaks another language .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses , which are spoken because of the mischehen six or seven languages , but is that you never hear anybody who learns a language .
you just listen and start talking .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who was first contacted in 1958 peaceful .
in 1957 , five missionary were trying to connect and made a major mistake .
they threw shiny photos of themselves out of the air , which we would as a friendly gesture , forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
they took these photographs off the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , found nothing , and concluded that this was business cards of the devil , and they killed the five missionaries with the spear .
but the waorani were not just killing outsiders with the spear .
they drilled through each other .
54 percent of the deaths were happening through drilling .
we followed geneaology eight generations , and we found two cases of natural death , and when we asked people about it a little bit about it , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we still killed him with the spear .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
their hunters were able to smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps and determine what animal species this one belonged to .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalier and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make sure of zombies .
to give that sensation a sense , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief in the voodoo , and voodoo is not a cult of the black magic .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view .
it &apos;s interesting .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
a continent is always left out , because the guess was that there were no religious faith in sub-saharan africa . of course , there was one , and voodoo is just the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came along during the tragic diaspora of slavery .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this vivid relationship between the living and the dead .
the living gave birth to the spirits .
the spirits can be complained from under the great water , answers to the rhythm of dance to overwhelming the soul of living , so that the akolyth becomes a short shiny moment to god .
desk said the voodoists like to say , &quot; you know , you go to church and you talk about god .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken in by the mind . how can you do damage ?
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo akolyths in a trceful state , acquiring the glowing coal without combustion , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body to hold it in a state of extreme arousal .
now , of all the people i met , the blood i was from the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , the most extraordinary .
afterwards of the old tyrannical civilization , populating the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of conquest , this people removed to an isolated volcanic solid that rises above the caribbean coastal plain .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only ones that were never conquered by the spain .
but to this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the training of the priesthood is very extraordinary .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at age three and four , and in a shadow world of eclipse , in stone huts at the age of the glacier for 18 years , and two periods of each nine years are deliberately chosen to mimic the nine months of pregnancy they spent in their light mother &apos;s lap , they now spend metamorphorphoric in the lap of the great mother .
and throughout that entire time , they &apos;re culturally introduced to the values of their society . values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say that ecological -- maintain equilibrium .
at the end of this amazing initiation , they &apos;re suddenly taken outside and for the first time in their lives , at the age of 18 , you see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness , when the sun begins to shine on the hangs of the amazing beautiful landscape , suddenly everything they learned in the abstract world will be revealed in astonishing glory . and the priest will come back and say , &quot; see ? it &apos;s really how i told you .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
they call themselves the older brothers and say that we are the younger brothers for the destruction of the world .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
whenever we think about innate and landscape , we either call it rousseau and the old framework of the noble wild , which is , in its simplification , a racial thought or , on the other hand , thoreau and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
so , indigenous ones are not sentimental , nor are they elected by nostalgia .
there &apos;s not a lot of space in the malaria swamps of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth that doesn &apos;t based on the idea of being aware of them , but on a much more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist because it &apos;s breathed into the human mind .
now , what does that mean ?
it means that a young child will grow up in the andean who &apos;s in the belief that the mountain is an apu spirit , who is his or her destiny , will become a very different person , and have a different relationship with this resource or this place than a little kid in montana , who grows up in thinking that a mountain is a bunch of stones that can be carried away .
whether it &apos;s a place of mind or a pile of heritage is irrelevant .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the nature .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be devastated .
that made me another person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests were the place of hukuk and the commandments of heaven snival and the cannibalic spirits that live on the northerners of the world , spirits that they would participate in their hamatsa initiation .
now , if you start looking at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
it &apos;s a picture i just took last april in the northwest of the amazon .
this is ayahuasca , many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shaman &apos;s repertoire .
what ayahuasca makes so fascinating is not just the pharmacological potential of this prey , but the processing . it &apos;s really made from two different sources . on the one hand , there &apos;s this wooden liane , which has a series of bidder irins , harmin , harmolin , slightly hallucinating , this climber plant alone is like a blue smoke is put on its consciousness , but it &apos;s put on the side with the leaves of the coherent family called the coffee system .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dithanyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimethanyltryphic tamin .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanomomi cutting this stuff , this substance that they make from different species contains methoxydimetric tamin .
snapping this powder is kind of like being shot out of a guns race , slashed by baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity .
it &apos;s not produced by a distortion of reality , but it &apos;s the resolution of reality .
in fact , i have discussed with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who discussed the psychedelic erea with the discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the &apos; 30s , and i argued that you couldn &apos;t put these tryptamins in as a hallucination , because the moment you feel the impact , you &apos;re no longer there to experience a hallucination .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken into hymn , because , of course , through a human gut , they &apos;re preceding enzyme called monoamin oxidase .
they can only be associated with some other chemicals that denate the mao .
now what &apos;s fascinating is that the tape carbonins that are in the liane are mao-inhibitors of the very same way that you need to power the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstranding plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , if they combine that way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
we use this great euphemism , try and error that turns out to be meaningless .
but they ask the native americans , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
so , what does that mean ?
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca , all of you recognize at a distance in the forest , which seems to be a species for our eyes .
and then they ask them what they do about their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you understand something about plants .
i mean , you don &apos;t know anything at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
so , it turns out you take each of the 17 varieties at full moon and they sing to you in a different scale .
now , this doesn &apos;t get you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting to count than tribal .
well , the problem with this -- the problem is that even those of us who have the sympathy for the difficult situation of innate , look at them as orginian and colorful , but they somehow reduced to the past , while the real world , our world .
so , the fact is that in the 20th century , in 300 years , you will remember not for your wars or technological innovation , but rather than an era in which we were against and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively accepted or passively accepted . so the problem is not the change .
all cultures have always been involved in the dance with new possibilities of life .
and the problem is not technology itself .
the sioux indian did not belong to sioux when they were bow and arrow tasks when americans stopped being americans when they were horse and horse trucks .
not change and technology threatens the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . ugly face of rule .
and wherever you look around the world , you &apos;ll discover that these cultures are not denied to the bottom . these are dynamic people whose existence is displaced by visible forces that go beyond their capacity of adaptation . whether it &apos;s in the process of immensely reforestation in the homeland of penan , a nomadity people from southeast south asia , a people who live in front of a generation in the forest now and now to kneumonia and prostitution on the u.s. river , where they can see that they can see , where the sea has been lowered , where the sea has been lowered , where the sea has been lowered .
or when we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is being convicted in general , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but in general and in many ways as part of a development strategy .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibet if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom .
i once went to lhasa with a young colleague &apos;s 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china , through southeast tibet , and only when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear . 6,000 holy monuments that were transformed into rubble and ashes . 1.2 million people killed during the cultural revolution by the kagers .
this young man &apos;s father was identified as a follower of the panel lama .
that meant that he was killed immediately during the chinese invasion .
his uncle flew with her holiness into the diaspora that brought people to nepal .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for the crime .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rock summit because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
the sister who did this brave act was brought to an education camp .
one day , she walked out of a armband mao , and for this overhead , she had to go into a heavy labor camp for seven years .
the suffering of tibetts can be intangible , but the reducing spirit of people is something unforgettable .
and at the end of it , we &apos;re really faced with a choice . do we want to live in a monotonous world of monotonies or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
margaret mead , the great anthropologist said before she died , that it &apos;s her greatest fear that as we move towards a thread , discretionary , generic view , we would see not only the entire range of human imagination reduced in a measured way of thinking , but that one day we wake up from a dream and forgot that there were ever other possibilities .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that our species may have existed for 600,000 years .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment the cult of the seed , replaced the poetry of the shaman through the prose of the priesthood and hierarchy , specialization and overload -- only 10,000 years ago .
the modern industrial world as we know it is barely 300 years old .
well , this shallow story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the next millennia .
when we ask these myriad world cultures what the meaning of being human , they respond with 10,000 different voices .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness who are aware of the importance of all the people and gardens being able to flourish a space . and there are great moments of optimism .
here &apos;s a photograph i took in the northern end of the baffin islands when i went to narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
the canadian government has not always gone very well with the inuit , and for the 50th years in the establishment of our rule , they have been forced to move in settlements .
the grandfather of this old man refused .
the family who was afraid of his life took all the guns and all the tools .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it to advantage .
the gliders of their slits were originally made from fish that was wrapped in caribbean skin .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the blow storm .
he hatched out , dropped his pants from abalone fur and defeated them in his hand , and when the feces started freezing , he shaped them into the shape of a knife .
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the staircase , and when it was frozen completely , it amazed a dog with it .
he contains the dog , and he improvised a dishes , took the dog &apos;s skeleton and improvised a sled , relaxed another dog , and descended on the ice sheets with the dye knife on the belt .
so you can do something from nothing .
and this is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the indigenous people in the world .
the canadian government gave the inuit back in april in 1999 all the control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
it &apos;s our new home country , called nunavut .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all the minerals .
an amazing example of how a nation , a state that can seek and reach with its inhabitants .
and finally , i think it &apos;s quite obvious , at least for those of us who &apos;ve traveled to these distant goals on earth , to realize that they haven &apos;t even gone away .
they &apos;re somebody &apos;s home countries .
they represent some of the human imagination that goes back in recent times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is we think politicians never do anything .
we believe that polemics -- we believe polemics are not persuasive , but we believe storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website is getting 35 million great ones every month .
156 nations send our channel to television .
our magazines are read by millions .
and we do a series of trips into the ethnosphere where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonder that you will find a way to be blinded by the blessed , and hopefully , one by one , the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in various ways that we can find a way to live in a really multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
thank you .
what i &apos;m going to show you first , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given to microsoft as part of a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment in which you can either avoid local or removed with huge amounts of visual data .
we see many , many gigabytes of digital here , which you can seamlessly and continuously raise , shifting , rearranged in any way .
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
most of you are digital photographs of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the congress library , and it &apos;s in a domain of 300 megapixies .
it doesn &apos;t matter , because the only thing that can limit the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
this is bleak house of thickens . every column is a chapter .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text , not an image , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of text , not a picture .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
every big picture is the beginning of a sniff .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with several scales .
we also did something on the corner of this particular piece of the guardian .
we &apos;ve designed a false ad with very high resolution that &apos;s much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added additional content .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
and this really captures these ideas to create these constraints to the place that &apos;s available on the screen .
we hope that no longer does pop ups and other nonsense mean -- that shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend much time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to be contributing to this area as well .
but these are all the streets in the united states .
nasa &apos;s interconnected up on top of the earth &apos;s urgent picture .
let &apos;s get something else out of it now .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
one is seadragon and the other is a very good research on computer vision , the noah snaodd , a university student in washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at the uw .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft &apos;s research . very good collaboration .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
you can see this when we create these kinds of views where we can go through images and have this experience of multiple resolution .
but the spatial order of the images here actually matters .
the computer vision-algorithms have held these pictures together so that they can hold up to the real room , where these images , which were all taken near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , which you see here are elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things were all spatially related to each other .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
there are those that are much more spatial .
i &apos;d like to just point out one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on first in the summer to show you what i think is really the punchline behind this technology , photosynths technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame who ended up in the computer with images of flickr . just give notre dame in flickr , and you &apos;ll get images of men in t-shirts and in university centers and so on . each of these orange cone represents a picture that was detected as this model .
so these are all flickr pictures , and they &apos;re all in this way related to each other in space .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
you know , i never believed i was going to work at microsoft after all .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
i suspect you can see that these are a lot of different kinds of cameras : everything about this is from the cell phone camera to the professional slrs , a pretty large number of them all flipped together in this environment .
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
many of them are covered by faces and so on .
somewhere here , there are a series of photographs -- here they are .
this is actually a poster by notre dame , which was recorded correctly .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from everybody -- from the entire collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything &apos;s connected .
all of these photographs are connected , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
you get a model that comes out of all of the earth .
think of this as the sequel of the work of stephen lawler on virtual earth .
and this is something that grows through the complexity that people use , and that uses the user to grow and to use .
their own photos are signage with metadata , which another person has entered .
if somebody has taken the trouble and labeled all these sacred people and told them who they are , my photograph of the notre dam cathedral suddenly becomes enriched with all this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this space , into these metaverse , which takes photos of other people and make a kind of overcoming model of social experience with other providers .
and of course , by the byproduct of all of this , the immense virtual models of every interesting part of the world , which has not only been preserved by overflipping or satellite images and so on , but by collective storage .
thank you .
do i get you right ? your software is enabling that within a certain time , within the next few years , all the images that are used by someone in the world are basically connected ?
yeah . it doesn &apos;t matter anything but discovering .
if you want to create them hyperlinks between the images .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
and this is really exciting when you think about the abundance of semantic information , which many of these images have .
how if you do a web search for images where you type in sentences and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what image this is .
but what if the image connects you to all your images ?
then the scale of the semantic cross-section and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . congratulations .
thank you very much .
i &apos;m going to tell you some things about my book that , as i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try and make some connections if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
i want to start with what i call an official dogma .
official dogma of what ?
official belief of all western industrialized societies .
official dogma works this way : if our goal is to maximize our citizens &apos; public well-being , it &apos;s mostly because of the maximizing of the freedom of the individual .
the reason for that is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , a viable assumption for the human .
when people have freedom , each of us is about doing the things that maximize our public good and nobody has to decide for us .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more they have .
this is , i think , so deeply anchored in our water supply that nobody would ever mind questioning it .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes us modern progress .
this is my supermarket . this is not a big one .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing for a second .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and you have 12 balsamico that you could buy to make a large number of your own salad of dessings , in the improbable case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
so this is what the supermarket is like .
and then you go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo -- speakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplified . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo .
we can assemble 6.5 million different stereo plants from the components offered in this one business .
you have to admit that this is a big selection .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every telephone provider you wanted as long as he came from ma bell .
they rented your phone . they didn &apos;t buy it . they bought it .
one consequence was that the telephone was never broken .
these days are over .
we have now almost an infinite selection of phones , especially in the mobile world .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
my favorite one is in the middle -- mp3 playwright , wee-haired trimmer and crd brée faccles .
and if you haven &apos;t seen this in your business yet , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be soon .
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
do you know what the answer to that question is ?
the answer is no .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a cell phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you what to do .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a , or we could do b .
a has these benefits and risks .
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
and they say , &quot; doctor , what do i do ? &quot;
the doctor says a has these benefits and risks , and b has those benefits and risks .
what do you want to do ?
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
the result is -- we call it patient autonomy . it sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in responsibility for making decisions from somebody who knows something -- namely , the doctor -- to someone who knows nothing and is highly ill , and therefore not to make a decision -- namely , the patient .
there &apos;s a tremendous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , makes no sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy them .
why are they advertising around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
the answer is : you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in prescription .
something as profound as our identity is now a matter of choice as to show this slide .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
and we &apos;re inventing ourselves as often as we want .
that means every day , when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one and they got married as fast as they could , and then they got kids as quickly as they could .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did after that .
today , everything is easy to have .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i did earlier .
and it &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re busy with other things , they &apos;re asking themselves , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
should i marry later ? should i have children , or should i have careers ? &quot;
they &apos;re all answering questions .
and you &apos;ll answer these questions regardless of whether this means doing all the tasks i assign you to do , not getting a good note in my class .
and in fact , you should do that . these are important to answer questions .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl pointed out , with the technology that enables us to work every minute from every place on the planet -- except for the randolph hotel .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , that the wirelesslan works .
i &apos;m not going to tell you because i want to use it .
so what it means is we have this incredible freedom of choice to make decisions about work , over and over again , whether we should work or not .
we can watch our kids play football in the football , and we have our cell phone on the one hip , and our blackberry on another hip , and our laptop is probably on our lap .
and even though you &apos;re all off , every minute we watch our child mutilate at a football game , we also ask ourselves , &quot; should i accept this call ?
should i answer that email ? should i write that letter ? &quot;
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly going to be your experience of your child &apos;s football game very different from it .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a matter of choice .
and the world we lived in looked like this .
so i want to say there were some choices , but not everything was a matter of choice .
and the world we live in now looks like this .
and the question is , are they good news or bad news ?
the answer is yes .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to talk about what &apos;s bad about it .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
one effect , paradoxically , is that he paralyzes rather than free .
with so many options you can choose , people are very difficult to choose at all .
i &apos;m going to give you another dramatic example of this , a study on investment in volunteers care .
a colleague of mine had access to investment acts from vanguard , the giant fondal society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer offered , took the participation by two percent .
they offer 50 investment funds -- 10 percent fewer employees participate than if it only offered five . why ?
because it &apos;s 50 investment funds that are chosen , it &apos;s so hard to decide what to choose to push it up in the morning .
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes tomorrow .
you know , not only do you know that people have to eat dog food when they retire , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it also means making decisions so hard to miss big investment in their employers .
through which they don &apos;t participate , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to multiply their contributions .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund or even the wrong salatdressing .
so that &apos;s the effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up with less satisfaction with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
and there are several reasons for this .
one of them is , by choosing a lot of different salatdressings , when you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could make another decision that would have been better . and what &apos;s happened is this image-making alternative leads you to regret the decision , and that regret works negatively on the happiness you made by your decision , even if it was good choice .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret nothing at all , that &apos;s disappointing to the choice you make .
second , what economists call oppertunisia costs .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much the way in which we evaluate things depends on what we compare .
well , if there are lots of alternatives to consider , it &apos;s easy to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you exclude , that makes you less satisfied with the alternatives that you chose .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
here &apos;s some of the hamptons .
very expensive real estate .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
everyone on my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he was missing the possibility of having a great parking lot day after day .
oppertunsia costs down the happiness we get from our selection , even though what we &apos;ve chosen is fantastic .
and the more possibilities there are to choose , the more attractive traits of that selection are taken into the oppersian cost .
here &apos;s another example .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
it makes a statement about living in now , and maybe also doing things slowly .
but one important point that he makes is always who you choose to do for one thing , you don &apos;t choose to do other things .
and these other things may have many attractive properties , and it will become what they will do less attractive .
three , escalation of expectations .
this hit me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
and there was a time when there was only jeans in a way , and they bought them , and they missed them , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they wore long enough , and they washed enough , they started feeling &quot; ok . &quot;
so to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old one , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have some jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , slightly obvious or wide ?
do you want to wash buttons or fants ? stone or acid ?
do you want to save jeans with holes ?
do you want to cut far down , keeny , blah blah ... &quot; and so on he said .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like the way that used to be the only way . &quot;
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying to do all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passing jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
i had better . all this choice allowed me to have it better .
but i felt worse .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
the reason i felt worse was because of all these available opportunities , my expectations for what a good few jeans was going up .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when it was only in a way .
when they came to 100 species , damn well , one of them should have been perfect .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
adding possibilities to people &apos;s lives increases inevitably the expectations people have about how well these choices are going to be .
and this leads to less happiness with the results even though the results are good .
nobody in the world of marketing knows this because , if you did , you would all know what this is about .
the truth is more like this .
the reason that it used to be better than anything worse was when everything was worse was possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise .
today , in the world we live in -- we wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can ever hope for is things as good as you would expect them to be .
they &apos;re never going to be surprising because their expectations , my expectations , are high .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what they all came for -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- which i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
i couldn &apos;t have done it better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
but decrease is not always such a bad thing .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad jeans if there &apos;s only one way to buy them , and they wonder why , who &apos;s responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could they do ?
when hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask them why , who &apos;s responsible ?
it &apos;s also so clear that the answer to the question is : you .
they could have done better .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
and so when people make decisions , and even though the results of decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
clinical depression exploded in the developed world in the last generation .
i think a significant one -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then when they have to explain these experiences , they think it would be their fault .
and so the billboard result is that we &apos;re doing better generally , objective , and we &apos;re feeling worse .
so let me remind you .
this is the official dogma that we all think is right , completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
there &apos;s no question that a little bit better than no choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choices are better than a choice .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
i &apos;m pretty sure we &apos;ve missed that point long at which choice improves our public good .
now , as a basic question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a set of questions about thinking about it , what all of these choices allow in the industrialized societies is wealth .
there are a lot of places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard a lot of them whose problem is not too big a selection .
your problem is they have too little .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry is , steve levitt told you yesterday about how these expensive and difficult car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not just that they &apos;re not helping .
you actually hurt .
they make it worse for us to get there .
if something of what makes people of our society possible to make decisions like this to the societies where people have moved too little , not only would people &apos;s lives improve , but ours would be improved .
economists call this a pareto improvement application .
income distribution will make everybody better -- not just the poor -- because all this great selection plains us .
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a sophisticated person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
you don &apos;t know anything in this goldfish glass . &quot;
impoverished imagination , a short-term view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i read it first .
but the more i thought about it , the more i came to the view that the fish knows something .
because the truth is that when you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you have no freedom . you have paralysis .
when you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you lower happiness .
they increase paralysis and reduce happiness .
everybody needs a gold jar .
this is almost too limited to complete security -- possibly for fish , definitely for us .
but the handicap of being from a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and i guess it &apos;s a disaster .
thank you very much .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
in fact , let &apos;s start from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code to a new era of biology by designing and building new life .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask important questions .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand and do at different levels .
we tried different approaches to simplify it to the minimal components .
we have digitized almost 20 years . when we sequenced the human genome , the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we tried to see if we could do it with a smaller genome .
we &apos;ve managed to get up to about a hundred genes from the 500 or something that &apos;s here .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple compared to ours , trust me , that &apos;s simple , but if we look at all of these genes that we can eliminate one after another , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to one living cell .
so we decided that it &apos;s the only way to go forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , allowing us to vary the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
and so we started asking the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
is it enabling the chemistry to make these really big molecules that have never been done before ?
and if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of informed chemical material .
our steps in digitization of life were exponential .
our ability to write genetic code has evolved very slowly but still increased , and our last point would now sit on an exponential curve .
we started 15 years ago .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make small pieces of dna , for 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors you make .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put together these little pieces and get the errors corrected .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the phi x 174 genome .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
the exciting stage came when we took this piece of incarcerated chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
i talked to the oil industry recently , and they said they understood this model exactly .
they laughed more than you do here .
so we think in the software , this is actually a situation where software can build its own hardware in a biological system .
but we wanted to go much further . we wanted to build a bacterial chromosome . it had over 580,000 letters of genetic code . so we thought we &apos;d build it in cassette tapes from the size of the virus that we could vary the size of the cassette tapes to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information really has to be flawed .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was a 10,000 base pairs error .
we found 30 mistakes at the resource . if we had used the original sequence , it would have never been possible to go up .
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long and that have to overlap them with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
we have unique elements in here .
you may have heard that we &apos;ve built watermarks .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
triplets of these letters -- these letters code about 20 amino acids , and there &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
at first we just signed .
some people were disappointed that it was not poetry .
we built the pieces so that we could just disseminate them with enzymes , there are enzymes that repair them and repair them .
and we started creating pieces , starting with pieces of five to seven letters , assembling them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , up to 72,000 letters .
every step we produced these pieces in the overhead so we could sequence them , because we were trying to create a very robust process of what you &apos;re going to see in a minute .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
when we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow into e. coli . it &apos;s going to increase all the possibilities of modern molecular biology . and so we turned to other mechanisms .
we knew about a homologist recombination mechanism that biology uses to repair dna that can assemble these pieces .
here &apos;s an example of this . there &apos;s an organism called deinococccus radiodurans of the three million rads of radiation .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
12 to 24 hours later , everything assembled again in the way it was .
we have thousands of organisms that can do this .
these organisms can be dried up completely , they can actually live in a vacuum .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist in space and move in search of aquatic conditions .
in fact , nasa showed that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
here &apos;s a sensation of the molecule that we made using these processes -- in fact , we just used hefu mechanisms with the right design of the pieces we put them in , and yeast automatically assembles them .
this is not a scanning electron microscope . it &apos;s a regular microscope .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see it with the light microscope .
this is pictures over a period of six seconds .
this is the publication we just recently completed .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code , which is the largest molecule of defined structure ever created by humans .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
if we printed it with a writing size of 10 and without distances , it would cover 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
well , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
it &apos;s as much easier if you do it in eukaryonts as we are : you just take out the nucleus and put another in it , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about cloning .
archaebacteria is integrating the chromosome into the cell , but just recently we &apos;ve shown that you can take a complete transplant from one cell to the other and activate it .
we cleaned the chromosome from a microphone species . roughly speaking , these two are as far apart as humans and mice . we gave some extra genes to choose this chromosome . we deconstructed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins . and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;ll estimate our very mature graphs here .
the new chromosome went into the cell .
in fact , we thought that was the end , but we tried to get the process a little bit further .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we find all species here that have taken a second chromosome , or a third of anywhere , adding thousands of characteristics every time in just one second to one species .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s changed at a time have missed a lot of biology .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
the chromosome that was in the cell didn &apos;t have one ; the chromosomes that we put in already .
it was primed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so at the end we had just one cell with a new chromosome .
it colored blue because of the genes we had added .
and after a very short time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and converted them completely into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
all the proteins changed -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting the software dna , change things quite dramatically .
now i argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
and i &apos;ve argued that we may be in the process of creating a new form of cambrian explosion in which there may be massive new species education based on this digital design .
why should we do that ?
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
we grew from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
today , three people on the planet are on the planet for everyone who has existed in 1946 , within 40 years , it will be four .
we have problems with food , fresh and clean water , medicine , 6.5 billion people fuel .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge for nine .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
we now have , from our discoveries all over the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity of it came out of it .
we &apos;re primarily pushing into the limits of biological reality and the limits of our imagination .
we have technologies today because of these rapid syntheseways to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
we now have the ability to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
if you can imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octanium or drugs new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with just a small team than the last 20 years of science .
and it &apos;s just selection . we can select for life , production of chemicals or fuel production , and so on .
this is a shot of actual design software that we &apos;re working with , that you actually sit down with and design new species on the computer .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like , we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
we &apos;re now focusing on the fourth generation &apos;s fuels .
you &apos;ve seen corn on ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
we have fuels of second and third generation that will come out pretty soon that will have much higher sugar , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
but as we think , the only way we do biology is to have a huge impact without any more of the cost of food or restriction of what &apos;s going to be available is when we see co2 as a output , and that &apos;s why we &apos;re working on cells that go along this way .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first with the fourth generation fuels , and that &apos;s about 18 months from now .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
but in our discoveries of the world , we have all kinds of different ways .
this is an organism we described in 1996 .
he lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half miles deep , at almost cooking water temperatures .
it converts co2 into methane , using hydrogen as a source of energy .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 that could be easily brought to production stores , convert co2 into fuel to drive this process .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
you know , we really have -- moderate targets like replacing the entire petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? become a source of energy .
but that &apos;s the same way that we &apos;re currently working on using the same approaches to develop vaccines .
you saw it this year with flu , we &apos;re always a year behind , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
i think that can be changed by creating recombined vaccines in advance .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , today the evolutionary tree can be accelerated with synthetic bacteria , archaas , and perhaps eukaryonts .
we &apos;re light years from improving people . our goal is that we have a chance to survive long enough to potentially do that . thank you .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
and i promised to come back and explain to you how the machine works .
so here it is . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the biggest scientific experiment ever addressed -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe -- and this is up to 600 million times within a second .
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
this is the machine underneath geneva .
we take pictures of these mini-big bangs in detectors .
this is what i &apos;m working on . this is called an atlas detector -- 44 meters wide , 22 meters in diameter .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in construction so you can see the scale .
on september 10 , last year , the machine was on for the first time .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
it caused immense jupiter in the control room .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that returned all the way around the lhc , then deliberately collided with some of the lhc to allow a rain of particles to bounce into the detector .
in other words , when we saw this image on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest july , or this , when someone went to google side and found the front page like this .
it means that we have a cultural impact next to scientific achievement .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
these wires lead 13-thousand ampses when the machine is running to power .
well , the engineers of you will look at them and say , &quot; no , they don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become what &apos;s called superconductors .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
in one of the connections between nine thousand magnets at the lhc , there was a manuscript .
so the wires heat slightly and 13-thousand ampers suddenly met electrical resistance .
this was the result .
now , this is all even more amazing if you can imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about a foot .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
and they had to remove what we were doing .
we reconditioned them , we repaired them .
you &apos;re all back on your way back now .
by the end of march , the lhc will be again operational .
we &apos;re going to be able to turn it on , and expect to be able to collect first data in june or july , and continue our journey to find out what the building blocks of the universe are .
well , of course , in a way that accidents like this , the debate is again about the value of science and engineering at such limits . it &apos;s easy to reject something like this .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard to grasp the fact that we reach beyond our borders is the value of things like the lhc .
i &apos;m going to leave my closing words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , as i suspect , defended the useless experiments of his teaching , his apprentice was michael faraday , said , &quot; nothing is so dangerous to the development of the human mind as to assume that our scientific beliefs are valid , that there are no mysteries in nature that our triumphs are full , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
thank you .
i &apos;m a writer .
writing books is my profession , but of course it &apos;s more than that .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
but the recent thing that &apos;s happened in my life and my career has made me completely rethink my relationship to this work .
this strange event was that i wrote a book recently -- a biography called pass eat , pray , love cells -- that , unlike all my previous books , for some reason , went out into the world and became a big mega-event , international best seller thing .
the result is that no matter where i &apos;m from , i &apos;m treated as if i &apos;m denied at the bottom .
seriously , the bottom line is refused !
for example , they get all concerned about me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome that success ?
don &apos;t you be afraid that you continue writing your whole life and never create a book that anyone in the world cares about ? never again ?
okay , that &apos;s what makes you really courage .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i first told them i was a teenager that i wanted to be a writer , i was confronted with the same kind of anxious response .
people said , &quot; well , are you not afraid to never succeed ? &quot;
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a statement is humiliating you ?
are you afraid that you &apos;re going to go through this craft and never create anything out of it and you &apos;re going to die on a junkyard of dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter of the failure ?
like that , you know .
the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is yes .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all of these things .
and i always had that .
and i &apos;m scared of a lot more things that nobody would know .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i &apos;m asking myself , why ?
is that reasonable ?
is it logical that someone should be expected to be scared of doing the work that they feel they deserve to do ?
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises is that they make us insecure about the state of mind -- in a way that other professions don &apos;t do ?
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist asking if he was afraid to be a chemist .
with your chemical blockage , john -- how are you doing that ?
it just didn &apos;t happen , you know ?
but to be fair -- the group of chemists , over the centuries , have not received the reputation of alcohol addicts to manic depression .
we writers seem to have this kind of call , but not only the writers , but the creatives of all the genres , seem to have this call to be mentally unstable .
all they need to do is look at the bitter death rates of really great minds just from the 20th century alone , which died by young and often by their own hand .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually lead suicide seemed to have really been neglected by their talents .
norman mailer said just before he died in his last interview , which is that each of my books killed me a little bit more .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your work of life .
but we don &apos;t even listen to somebody like this because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long . somehow we &apos;ve accepted the notion that creativity and collectively , that somehow creativity and suffering and that art , at the end , leads to the seel-qual all the time .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is : is this idea completely okay for you ?
do you feel comfortable with that ? because with just one centimeter , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with that notion at all .
i think they &apos;re disgusting .
and i find them dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch them go into the next century .
i think it &apos;s better when we encourage our great creative encourages to live .
and i definitely know that for me , in my situation , it would be very dangerous to start , to kind of download this dark path of conjecture -- especially in the fact that i &apos;m in my career right now .
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
i have maybe another 40 years of work in me .
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything i &apos;m going to write now is going to be judged by the world as the work that came after the last book &apos;s gone off , right ?
i &apos;ll just say it out , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s probably most likely that my biggest success is behind me .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start at 9 a.m. , drink gin the morning . and i don &apos;t want to .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
so the question is : how ?
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to keep a safe distance between me and my very natural climb of what the reaction is going to be to written .
while i was looking for models last year to do this , i was also looking for the past , and i was trying to find other societies to see if they might have better or more sensible ideas about it than we could to help to take on the emotional risks associated with creativity .
this search took me to the ancient greece and the old rome .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
but in the ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine divinity that comes from a distant , unknown source to people for unexplained , unknown reasons .
the greeks called these divine diy minds of creativity &apos;s demons .
socrates are known to believe that he had a demonstration that told him from afar .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of bodily creative mind , a walking genius .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical creature that was believed to be living literally in the walls of an artist &apos;s walls -- like dobby , the house 11 -- that came out and to the artist at work , in a certain way , make the result of the work .
this is brilliant -- there it is , there is the distance i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and everybody knew it worked that way , right ?
the artist of the age was protected from certain things like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
when your work was brilliant , you didn &apos;t want to look at it all for you , everyone knew you had this disembodied genius that helped you .
when your work flew -- not entirely your error , right ?
everybody knew your genius was a little bit lumpy .
so people in the west have really thought about creativity for a long time .
and then the renaissance came along , and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was , let &apos;s put the human individual at the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to accept the commands of divinity .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
for the first time in history , people hear this or this artist call a genius -- instead of him having a genius .
i have to tell you , i think this was a big mistake .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think that he &apos;s thinking , or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , infinite mysteries is a little too much responsibility to burst you from a fragile human psyche .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
this unfolds and decomposes whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
i think that this success pressure has annihilated our artists over the last 500 years .
and if that &apos;s true , and i think it &apos;s true , the question is this .
can we change it ?
maybe to a ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of creativity .
maybe not .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate the thought out of 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would sign up really legitimate scientific doubt about the notion of -- basically -- fees that people will follow and apply feather magic to their projects and so on .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on that journey .
but the question i want to leave is , why not ?
why not think about it that way ?
because it makes as much sense as anything else i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolute insanity of the creative process .
a process that , as anyone knows , has ever tried to do anything -- so in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always behave reasonably .
in fact , sometimes he can feel straight to paranormal .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was more poet all of her life , and she told me that when she was growing up in southern virginia outside in the fields , she said she could feel and hear how a poem came to her landscape .
she said it would be like a thundering train of air .
which would roll across the country on them .
she felt when it came , because it would make the earth beg under her feet .
she knew that at that moment , she could only do one thing . and that was , in her words , reflective running like the devil .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was pursued by this poem , and it was all about having to get to a piece of paper and a pencil so that if it was donated through them , she could catch and hold on the leaf .
in others , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through her , and she missed . she said it would continue to move across the country , and , as she said , by looking for another poet , she said .
and then there were these moments -- the part i &apos;ll never forget -- she said that there were moments when she gave it almost missed .
so , she runs to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she grabs a pen just as it goes through her , and then -- she said -- it was like reaching out with her other hand and grabbing it .
she caught the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body , and she took it on the sheet of paper .
these opportunities came in , the poem came in , and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from last word to first .
when i heard that , i thought about it , this is amazing -- this is exactly how my creative process happens .
that &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
i &apos;m a wall animal . to work , i have to get up and sweat at at the same time every day , struggle and intersect really uncomfortable .
but even i have sometimes made this thing in my mouth .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
even i had ideas that came through from a source of mine that i really couldn &apos;t identify .
what is this thing ?
and how do we relate to that without losing our minds , but actually keeping us from intellectual health ?
for me , the best living example of how to do this is by the musician tom waits . i interviewed him for a magazine a few years ago .
we talked about this issue . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the modern artist who was trying to master this uncontrollable creative impulse that lived inside him and deal with them .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and that &apos;s where everything changed for him .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a tune , which , as it &apos;s often difficult for inspiration , is agonizing for him , and he wants to have it . he &apos;s gorgeous . he &apos;s leans after that , but he can &apos;t believe it .
he has no piece of paper , he has no pen , he has no cassette records .
so he starts , this old adhesive in him , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing and be pursued by this song to eternal .
i &apos;m not good enough , i can &apos;t do it . i can &apos;t do it .
but instead of getting into panic , he just stopped .
he ended all the thought and did something completely new .
he just looked out into the sky and said , &quot; excuse me , can you see i &apos;m driving ? i mean , can you see i &apos;m driving ?
am i looking like i just could write down a song ?
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment when i can take care of you .
if not , squawks today , somebody else .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
his whole process of work has changed afterwards .
not the work itself . it continued to be as dark as ever .
but the process and the heavy climb that surrounds it was picked up when he took the genius out of it , where he got nothing more than trouble and left him where he came from , and he realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internalized , tormented thing .
there could be an odd , miraculous , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the strange , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it changed the way i worked , and it saved me again .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of the writing of class eat , pray , love , and i fell into one of those pelvis of doubt that we all fall into when we &apos;re working on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start thinking it &apos;s going to be a disaster . this is the worst book ever written .
not only bad , but the worst of all time .
i started thinking , i should just trigger the project .
but then i remembered how tom had spoken in the open sky , and i tried .
so i took my view of the manuscript , and i spoke my comment towards an empty corner of the room .
i spoke loud : come on , you ding , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you can see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to check up here and hold your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that , you know what the hell is with it .
i &apos;m going to keep writing anyway , because that &apos;s my job .
and i want to ask you to go to protocol that i was here for my part of the job today .
because ... at the end of it , it &apos;s like this . it was centuries ago that people in the deserts of north africa have gathered into moonies with sacred dances and music that have been held for hours until dawn .
these solids were always great because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but once in a while , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became transcendent .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know all of you in your life have seen such a performance .
it was like standing still and having the dancer walk through a kind of pform . he did nothing different than he ever did before -- 1,000 nights before , but everything assembled .
and all of a sudden , he no longer appeared to be human .
it was lit from the inside and lit from the bottom , and everything was lit up through a divine fire .
when something like this happened , people knew what this was . they called it his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing : female allah , allah , allah , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the moses conquered southern spain , they brought this practice , and the pronounces changed over the centuries of pass allah , allah , allah , to express olé , which you still hear in stiff and flamenco dances .
if a performer in spain did something impossible , something magical : it &apos;s done : it &apos;s done allah , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo expressible , there it is : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he no longer carries a five-pound of god .
it &apos;s just an aging mortgage with painful knees , and maybe it &apos;ll never go up to those altitudes again .
and maybe somebody will never call god &apos;s name again , if they turn , but what do they do with the rest of their lives ?
that &apos;s hard to do .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of wine if you didn &apos;t believe in it from the very beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you just believe you &apos;re a loan , from an incredible source of a readable time in your life that &apos;s passed on to somebody else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it that way , it changes everything .
so i started thinking , and i think with certainly in the past few months , working on the book that &apos;s going to seem soon -- as the dangerous , scary , well-expected successor of my passing success .
what i have to tell myself all the time , when i get crazy about this , is that i &apos;m not afraid .
don &apos;t be disheartened .
just do your job .
be there for your contribution , whatever you want to be .
if your job is to dance , dance .
if the stupid divine genius that you have to put aside , for a moment , decides a miracle in your effort to show , then articolé !
and if not , still dance your dance .
and touch olé ! pass for you despite all of that .
i believe in it , and i feel like we should teach that .
odd ! odd for you despite all of this , just for having the mere human love and self-sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years , had shrunk the size of the bottom 48 states by 40 percent .
but that doesn &apos;t express very much the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thickness of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in the winter and shrinks in the summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse shot of what happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is labeled with red .
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue , this is the annual ice in the winter , and it shrinks in the summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem because warming is looking at the frozen reason around the arctic ocean , where there are large amounts of frozen carbon that , if it &apos;s looking up , is transferred from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change in the atmosphere , this amount could double if we transcend that critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane , methane is challenged by itself from water .
professor katey walter of university in alaska has traveled to another group of work to another flat sea last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re doing well . the question is , how are we going to do it ?
and one reason is that this tremendous warmth is warming up from the north .
this is an annual flow of water .
but volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is kangerussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how sea level rises through land ice sheets here , it goes into the sea .
these rivers are taking them rapidly .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent has now a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which has popped up over a few sewage islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is equivalent to 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you can see new lakes up there that were glaciers a few years ago .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from that fresh water .
in the andean , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the waters have been expanding .
but when you lose , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is for memory basins .
and the predictions that you &apos;ve read are serious .
this austrochs around the world leads to a dramatic increase in fires .
and the disasters all over the world have increased at a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times more in the last 30 years than in previous 75 years .
this is a completely unsustainable development pattern .
if you look at this in historical context , you can see what it does .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons per day into the oceans .
look at the area of the eastern pacific precisely , from the american continent west and both the indian subcontinent , where there &apos;s a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , next to deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the two largest pollution , along with china .
and the proposal was to build a lot of other coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years with some green alternatives suggesting .
meanwhile , there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
and the coal stripes and oil ducts spent a quarter billion dollars last calendar year promoting clean coal , which is a contradiction itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , i walked around in tennessee at home , a billion tons of cooking lamb .
you seem to have seen it in the news .
this is all over our country of the second largest waste in america .
this is what happened for christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry for christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in shells and abundance in america , and it &apos;s helping our economy grow .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
he &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers stay in loves and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me be clear about one thing . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate protection has started two campaigns .
this is one , part of it .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
so at the top of the line , we set out a huge amount of money to get a commercial action on the way to make the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it smells good too .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
leave that quietly .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s go on a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of the clean coal technology .
and yet , burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , which is remarkably clean coal technology you see here changes everything .
look at it carefully , this is the clean coal technology today .
finally , the positive alternative to our economic challenge and our national security challenge is mixing up .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that combines all of these is our dependence on carbon based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold new solution to free ourselves from this miserable situation .
run america with 100 percent clean electricity over the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , make us safer and help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
new america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways to reduce our dependence on old , dirty fuels that include our world .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
america &apos;s new . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying : &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get far , fast .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time your childhood when you played with building nozzles .
while they realized how to reach out and intervene , pick up the blades and move them , they actually learned how to think and how to solve problems through understanding and changing space contexts .
spatial thinking is closely connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist , inspired by the kind of way we interact with real objects -- with my professional adviser patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i began to wonder : what if we used computers that would be like a mouse tip that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface of the work -- what if we could intervene with both hands and intervene data physically and arrange it the way we want it ?
this question was so poignant that we decided to explore the answer and evolved sift .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
you can be moved by your hand , you can perceive each other , you can detect your movements , and you have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , they &apos;re physical , so you can only move them out of your hands and your access .
and the sift is an example of a new generation of tools for manipulation of digital data .
and if these tools become more physical and become more conscious of their movements , recognize each other and see the intricacies of our approach , then we can start to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;ll start with some simple examples .
this sift is configured for the video replication , and if i put it in one direction , the video is played forward ; if i tip it in the other direction , it &apos;s going to go backwards .
and these interactive portraits take each other &apos;s notice .
so when i put them next to each other , it wakes your interest .
if you &apos;re surrounded by one-ader , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and tilt .
one interesting consequence of the interactions we started to see was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shaking colors like this , how you do with fluids .
in this case , we configure three sives as a color pot , and i can use them to pour paint in the middle where they &apos;re then mixed together .
if we overdo it , we can shake a little bit back .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the possibility of doing quick things and see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series i &apos;m making with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words that &apos;s a kind of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable letter , and as you try to form words , they &apos;re tested over a dictionary .
then , after about 30 seconds , you &apos;re remixed , and you have a new combination of letters and new opportunities to try .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip out , and i could get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is you don &apos;t have to give people lots of instructions .
all you have to say is , &quot; form words , &quot; and you know exactly what to do .
here are a couple of people who test it .
this is our youngest beta-test on the bottom right there .
it turns out he was just going to stack the sift .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
this is an interactive trickwatch .
we wanted to develop a language learner &apos;s learning .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting up the sift off the table , showing this character .
here he is leaving the sun .
the sun rises .
now he &apos;s going to take a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the sift and putting it next to each other , he can let the characters interact ...
... invent his own story .
hi there !
it &apos;s a story with the end of it , and he can decide how it &apos;s evolving .
flying cat .
the last example i have time to show today is a music sequencer for live records that we &apos;ve recently developed and act in the sift as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each one has four different variations ; you can select which one you want to use .
and you can put these notes into the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you put them in by just holding a clay siftable on a sequencing siftable .
there are effects that you can change live , like reverberation and filters .
you connect it to a particular note and then you tend to hire it .
and then even more rearranged effects like speed and volume that you apply to the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we start putting in the leadership voice in two sequencing siftable and arranging it in a row , expanding it and adding it a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a bass .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums about this .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter to the drum so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by going down one way or another .
and now i &apos;m going to combine the filter with the bass for a little more expression .
i can put the sequence as it runs out .
so i don &apos;t have to plan you in the field , i can improvise you ; you extende you or shrink you during the process .
and finally , i can shut out the whole sequence by tending the loud-starter sift to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human interfaces that fit better at how our brains work and bodies work .
and today i had time to show you some of this new design world and some of the ways we &apos;re working on in our lab .
the thought i &apos;d like to leave with you is that we &apos;re on the verge of this new generation of advertising with digital media that bring information to our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to talking to all of you .
yeah , good afternoon .
i &apos;m happy i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what should be biohacking ?
i just have to pick this up a little bit , and this is biohacking &apos;s looking at modern molecular biology .
i study molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been looking at it for a few years now with biohacking , and i started doing it because i just wanted to know it more specifically , and i wanted to do it myself , which i learned theoretically .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to get closer to the matter , like that .
i think that molecular biology generally is now , so generally , biotechnology , everything you count , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important , now is extremely important and much , much more important , in the future .
there are things as controversial as these whole genetically engineered plants on the apples .
there &apos;s now craig venter in the u.s. who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , which is algae gasoline .
among them , there are things that have come up with totally everyday life , but what most people don &apos;t realize is , for example , washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically optimized enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and so the interest in this technology , this is where i came in a little bit .
so why hack now ?
most people know this from the software sector , most people know it .
computers hack , and then it always becomes like this in the media , yes , the hackers break in somewhere and steal data and so on .
it &apos;s kind of very sad for the hacking scene , because that &apos;s not true at all what she actually started with , and what &apos;s actually behind it .
and that is that software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started tinkering with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came from .
and it &apos;s about solving a playful , creative , original way of solving a problem .
and problem , not only is it a technical problem , it can be a social problem , it can be a problem , it can be a problem with access , which is simple , so any problem , to throw up a question , and how can you do it differently , or how can you do it better ?
and it just grew up with software , but there &apos;s also electronics , there &apos;s also a whole tinkering scene that &apos;s done with electronics circuits .
and right now , also , in biology , and that &apos;s where i want this metaphor that &apos;s coming from synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and it &apos;s not just cyber .
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can program it , and so you can hack it , so i think it &apos;s incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get in a lot deeper .
this actually only took two thousand really shapes , these networks .
there &apos;s hacktera dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india based network , but has members or active people around the world now .
this is a more artistic facility , so there are a lot of artists and philosophers and scientists working with trying to deal with these technologies and to process them creatively , there are museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s always about finding such a loose way of having such a gadget , of having a playful approach with it .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is from the u.s. a network , which is actually more like a forum where you meet yourself and discuss yourself online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also a little bit more business along the way , and then they &apos;re asked something like this , yes , applied questions .
and based on these networks that have made the whole popular , such a scene has evolved that i want to portray for a second .
in the image on the upper left here , you see bioculture , which is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit facility where anyone can go .
kids , old people , all kinds of people , just to deal with them , they set up a lab and they look at what you can do when these lab protocols look at it .
here on the bottom left is a group in indonesia called house-of-body natural fiber , but it &apos;s been around for a long time .
longer than these other two networks .
they &apos;re also looking at an artistic aspect of biological materials like this , and , yes , electronics , and combining that in a pretty straightforward way .
a group of ankara i met a while ago , they have a group of students who like to communicate more what they learned in college , and they have done so on street little actions and tried to explain to people what that that is .
and i have a lecture up in the other picture at the copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the subject .
and this is , yes , this is mostly quite young people , but the only thing that actually everybody agrees with is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and also quite targeted to society , to go and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know what are going to do with it , do you have an interest in bringing you with it ? &quot;
so , okay , to hack now biology , you need some kind of material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
or what you normally understand under a lab is that these are kind of mind-wandering machines , extremely expensive , extremely distant , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
and our approach was to say , o.k , that you don &apos;t actually have to do it .
this is actually not necessary , because every coffee machine has actually more sophisticated technology than most lab devices , which is really like this .
and s o with this premise then , for example , brian degger in england tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam cone , a heat plate , and , yes , soup breeding , and then bacteria have grown .
so anyone who &apos;s ever gamed a soup that he &apos;s left for too long has been made .
i then tried to expand this at my lab at home a little bit , and then bought myself the power handle on ebay and did some d.n.a analysis , tried to do a fatherest , so anyway , like that d.n.a fingerprinting , back home .
now this is not supposed to be a joke , but .
down here in the picture , you see the lab , in leadership strikes , so there &apos;s a garage like this with all kinds of lab rubber that college has equipped out , a group in paris that &apos;s kind of focused on what &apos;s up there , and it &apos;s also doing some pretty interesting things , and i want to cut a project for a second .
and this is bioculture , which i just mentioned hackerspace , this is a kind of people &apos;s school for molecular biology .
and yes , so you can see , it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so that &apos;s what people do on their own , all the way to large large organizations doing this already in an institutionalized form .
but always the approach of it is that it should be easy and accessible .
the first project we did as an international group , when we kind of realized ourselves , o.k , it gives us here now as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we &apos;re familiar with the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then came from the do-it-yourself bio org website from founders , and said o.k , we really need to meet now , also make real meetings , and then organized two events , one in london , two thousand , and shortly after that in the u.s. , in san francisco .
and , you know , that &apos;s what we &apos;re all about , yes , who are we , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values and what are our intentions , our basis ?
and then we worked out a code-of-the-field .
that was quite intuitive , so everybody just expressed his wishes , his and what makes him feel , then .
there came , i think , a very good code .
and then we didn &apos;t make that compelling , but that &apos;s , i think , salary has set out relatively well , people are quite convinced by that .
and then we even tried to bring that back to the academic world , but there &apos;s no way that it gets there .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacker scene , in fact , one step further than the academic world .
well , what kind of projects do we actually do now ?
one project i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was we wanted to build what we call an optical trap or an optical tweezer .
this is , if you focus a laser beam , on one in the room , you can catch little particles in the air or in the liquid and then move them into this focus , so , this is captured there , basically , like a tractor beam .
this really works , this is done in the academic mind , and we thought , okay . so maybe we &apos;ll get this too , then we took a webcam that would screw down the lens , turn off the lens , you &apos;ve got a microscope that &apos;s zooming in about four hundred times .
you can see that down there .
and then we screwed up a d.v.d kilner and pulled out the laser , and then tried to focus on that camera there .
and unfortunately , it didn &apos;t work , but we still learned a lot about it .
so another project , which is from the french group out of paris , which worked , which is pretty cool .
and he &apos;s got such a brain wave device , such e.e. or something , so he &apos;s been busy with neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , he ran it .
then the visitors could go into the room , sit on this chair , sit on this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought or how they thought , then there were different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fate project .
another thing from the united states that has to do with this father &apos;s story is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain reaction , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating genes , d.n.a , fragments , so you can make them visible .
so now , if i do this , the profilers at the scene , they go , they collect some hair samples , and then they do this method , and then they say , o.k , this hair belongs to this person , like this .
and the machines that do this are pretty expensive to buy commercially , the cheapest ones go off at four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in hobbyes , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot of that .
so this is just one use of many that you can do with it .
and they ran into two builders and said , &quot; o.k , we &apos;re doing this easier and cheaper , and then we &apos;re getting out of open source , so free hardware , electronics , this device assembled , and now they &apos;re even brought it to the market , and now the cheapest vendor in the world is .
i think that kind of sixth dollar or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s definitely in a framework where it becomes more available .
so it &apos;s a very bored hack , i think .
one project i started the other day was building a gene gun .
gene gun , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun , it shoots about this far , two centimeters or so .
you load d.n.a on gold particles and then the gold particles into these air pressure pistol , and then i shot them on onions and made them light like this .
so the device you see there didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype , which was pretty much out , on such a branch , attached to it , electronics on it , and pressure it was pressure , but it was too high , the thing had broken .
and then i took a joint commute and i plugged it in .
a cone commute , if you make it full with water , is enough pressure , so i think it &apos;s about 40 to six thousand pounds on it .
and then you can accelerate the particles a lot enough , and then they go into the onion as well .
and the commercial device costs about 500,000 euros up or something like that , tell tell them about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically feasible .
and so this is at the moment also the core issue of the scene is to increase this availability of technology and also to increase the information and the understanding that more people can get involved in it .
because , as i said at the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea , and also no chance to form really well .
because if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same thing as if you saw it or you saw it yourself .
and i think technology is becoming more and more important in our modern societies .
and if you want to be an informed citizen to make meaningful decisions in society and to talk to them , you need access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it to be able to do it and understand it .
and that then fires under the headwords of open culture and citizen science .
so , as citizens , you &apos;re going to be able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and that &apos;s the core issue of the biohackers .
these are the people who worked out at least officially on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s already a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is they &apos;re also represented in southeast asia .
that &apos;s me thinking , they &apos;re there , you know , fewer people than existing .
so i know of some who haven &apos;t contributed .
and these are just the biohackers now , the individual people .
so in part , with these hacking spaces , these places are put together there .
and that &apos;s at the very beginning .
as i said , two-thousand-odd , it just started .
and hackerspace , you know , the computer hacking space , because the c-base in berlin was the first , nine-tenths of funding .
and this has now become a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers represented all over the world .
and we hope , of course , that we &apos;re going to spread out in a similar way , and then also connected in a similar way , so that stop there are more people involved .
and i would invite everybody to deal with it and also try it myself something .
now it &apos;s not that simple now , but it &apos;s not that impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you put enough energy in there , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hi .
how do we actually work for people ?
that &apos;s a question that i &apos;m very excited about as a designer , but also in the field of research in usability and in front of all the things in the user experience .
this is about how to encounter people in interactive media so they can use this interactive media and create a possible experience .
because i think that interactive media is addressing archaic , cognitive models , so thinking patterns that have been programmed in our biological memory very , very long ago , and that we can recreate them through interactive media right now .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-technology you see is going to bring you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
what are archaic models now ?
i wrote down four words and i &apos;d like to explain them briefly .
archaic cognitive models are the models we &apos;ve engineered in the pre-industrial times .
part of these archaic models is that we have a virtually natural relationship with virtuality .
this sounds kind of unusual first .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a minute , and i &apos;m going to show you that you also have a natural relationship to virtuality .
the second thing is that since these archaic models , we &apos;ve been able to talk very , very imagery , even though we use a coded language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media is by definition non-linear , which involves the sense of linearity , and what of course tells us is that we feel linearity today as a normal thing .
the fourth thing is that the story for us is a place of information .
what about the virtuality of this , which is actually the most natural thing in the world .
i &apos;d like to prove that to you .
how many doors do you have the house you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer that immediately , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and this is going to happen right now .
they go through this house in the mind , so they live in , and look at how many doors there are .
and that &apos;s exactly what they do .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and there we &apos;re struggling with media campus , for example , to show virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do that all the time .
and virtual that fortune to virtualize the reality that people needed in the pre-industrial times also have to have bitter , because they had nothing .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photoolitography .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in that head , the memory was going on .
in this head , knowledge was called , and with these virtual images , imagination , knowledge was passed on .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s so much rooted within us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing about this is , if i can make a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s it .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at that time , man was simultaneously media producers and medium himself .
now if you think a little bit further , right ?
what is media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there was a change .
but i &apos;ll come back to that in a minute .
the essential tool of information training has been stories all the time .
shamanas , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were extra dedicated to preserving knowledge in stories .
and even today , we still depend very , very hard on stories .
the author of the story culture , jonathan gotchall , we &apos;re still connecting thousands of hours a year to the recipe of stories .
that means that for a child who has spent most of his life achieving the prescription of stories .
now we think our love of stories depends on us as a child sitting on our parents &apos; lap .
no , no , no , far missing .
this goes back to much more in the pre-industrial cultures .
but to me , in the realm of interactive media , what &apos;s really amazing is that by anchoring in our biological memory , we have the ability to think nonlinearly .
i brought you an example of the nootka indian tribe .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very rare area , and you had to navigate somehow from island to land to raise food .
and they did it with what &apos;s called a lead-map .
you may know that if you &apos;re interested in it a little bit , from australian people .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead maps , they &apos;ve used songlines like this , or they &apos;ve also used grapes .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that navigation and topography of regions could be mapped over songs .
where the language was subordinated by a subordinated rang .
that means you navigated over sound and over rhythm .
and these sounds and rhythms have shown the geology , the topography of an area , and of course that has also enabled you to degrade these songs and put yourself in different ways and move left , right and also output .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from above a to b ?
anyway , not to navigate .
what actually happened there ?
it happened to be the genital machine age .
we moved to what was called the avian age before .
what &apos;s happened is the machine age , and it &apos;s happened is the book , and it &apos;s the photolitography .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened : that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and the ability to make our individual memories on external media .
the book and the picture .
so unfortunately , we have a little bit of removed from god .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a famous design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he says the book and the picture , not television , the internet and so on , and what we call a mass media today , have fossilized this mass media of our memories and enabled our ability to virtualize .
let &apos;s make a little intermediate .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what has influences in our thinking and in our thinking ?
then these are fading influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they &apos;re more and more signed over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
that means , instead of individually remembering ourselves , we have standardized , widely distributed patterns of memories that we can hang on our personal memories .
we no longer produce ourselves .
we have an abstract language . we have an abstract language .
we no longer imagine the thing in pictures that things don &apos;t come from images , but we codify them our language .
we used to know that things happen linearly .
and we accepted linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions like non-linearity .
what we stayed is the story story story .
we &apos;re still very , very arrested by the story as an information mediation .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vocal age , we had the machine age , and we now described the so-called cyber-age .
this sounds very spacey and sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of the cyberage , they bring us back these opportunities to rediscover our ability .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about story .
i want to explain that a little bit for a second .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which means augmented reality .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , one concept that makes us recombine the virtual world with the real world is called our affinity to virtualization , which is to find virtual as something normal , natural , is appealed again .
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality .
now of course , crazy in the context of my talk , we &apos;re moving physically into non-existing virtual worlds , looking for the holodeck .
and other examples are the ambitious , intelligent systems .
these are rooms that intelligent can respond to a human being .
all of this needs the ability , our basic ability , to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated from there , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , anny-kathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the last two are also here today .
maybe you can get up for a moment so they can pause with the two about the project .
and this is a project that i brought back to , as an example , is addressed to this archaic , cognitive model .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposite to the story and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to see that some people in front of some console or that they &apos;re playing with the console in their hand .
anyway , they do it in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and this is targeted to think that i &apos;m exploring the outside world , so i &apos;m rediscovering the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , so the data is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain that in a moment in a much better way , there &apos;s much more to it than that .
and that &apos;s about exploring a city by looking at which places have been positively tweeted or negatively .
and so i get a very different view from the city , a very different idea , which is that i see negative and positive zones in a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re seeing in a moment .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , and it &apos;s clear .
and with a kind of a flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize this in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vocal age have come back to us so slightly in the machine age that , using what we call the cyber age , we can be activated , and that in this way , we can get back to our roots .
thank you .
yeah , i &apos;m very excited to be with you .
i just wondered whether this bag is a talking bag and will be mine rather than speaking .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
i &apos;m going to resolve what &apos;s inside as well .
but i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious so far .
yes , kids are naturally curious or should be curious , designers too .
i &apos;m a creator of house , so of course , i &apos;m also looking at the subject of curiosity , and how does the curiosity change our thinking again , and why do we maybe lose curiosity and repel and so on and so forth ?
that &apos;s a whole range of things that you &apos;re dealing with next to actual existence as a creator .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often shrugged into this n research semester .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half of the year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why do all the cracks begin to deal with such natural archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on ?
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up , because things are supposed to get more intuitive , more natural , more user-friendly , and you have to look at what &apos;s actually natural for us humans , what &apos;s user-friendly or intuitive .
and before the background , i &apos;ve been in the natural user interface , so the next generation in the human computer , where the human computer is dealing with how our tools , or how the computer is changing from the computer superkessive to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been looking at what &apos;s natural or intuitive .
maybe another look at it again .
why does this happen at all ?
so if we look at the evolution of our society , briefly shown here , we &apos;re moving from the third to the fourth generation of society or social form .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at first , tribal society through language .
that means that you found that you &apos;ve talked to a common language , you &apos;ve been able to communicate with each other , you &apos;ve moved to the same cave or you &apos;ve moved to other areas , you &apos;ve created cities or villages , and you &apos;ve kind of created tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very vivid .
while you also had to learn , so no toddler can talk about nature , but we learn it sukzessive and proportionate , of course .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you started manifest the living language in the form of writing , which means what fluid and lifestyle is , i start and i mix it in stone , and i manipulate it .
depending on how i throw it and when i throw it , of course , it &apos;s a very different narrative than when there &apos;s a living one .
but then sukzessive just moved this script as a primary medium to get in .
then the next generation we actually live in primarily today .
this is just the printed script with pressure and print with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just like a monkey where noodle , klerus and others said , you &apos;re actually insane when people start reading , then afterwards they want to talk , and of course that &apos;s totally fatal .
and now we &apos;re going to get into the next generation , and the exciting thing is , this change in generational change is only every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now that we &apos;re doing this with each other .
this completely confuses us , of course , because we see on the one hand the new media , social media , facebook and so on .
with total transparency , what new thinking is , what bangs on old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat and no beef is anymore or other phenomena , i want to just swap that up and do that at all .
and these two worlds are sitting together right now , thinking new and old .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , it rejects very many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
but now it &apos;s not at the local level anymore , it &apos;s at the global level .
we understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global subject .
not that , if i think local about it ecologically , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that means , from the local village , actually has become a global village with the same principles , possible , possible , intuitively , but also total transparency .
just like you knew back in the village , who has what &apos;s going on with whom and when , this is how this is going to happen today about extension of ourselves through these mobile devices on a global scale .
whether we &apos;re aggregating knowledge globally and ever faster and better .
as it used to happen on the village .
in front of the background , i &apos;ve just been looking at this , what does it mean ? what &apos;s still natural for us , what may we have learned , but also instinctively , what &apos;s the difference for us ?
because a lot of times people come , they can &apos;t do it in a way that &apos;s user-friendly so that anyone can deal with it .
so you have to deal with what that means , and not only do you have to change it that it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s got to get better .
and of course , when is a little bit intuitive , and how can i influence it as a creator and make things like this so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so they &apos;re intuitive because then they &apos;re fun and easy to use .
you know , you &apos;re looking at , even during studying , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and of course , that &apos;s where you start , and you look and you say , okay , now i &apos;m just going to look inside the inner self .
and what &apos;s it actually looking like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it mean , in fact , intuitively and how do our channels of perception work , and how does cognitive processing work ?
because steve jobs once said you need to be articulating it , as a matter of fact .
so you really have to look in the details if i want to make something user-friendly or intuitive , what does that mean at the core ?
and you can see that you have our seven senses , most of them think we &apos;re only five , and we &apos;re seven now , and i &apos;m sure you &apos;re going to be the next , age-packed sense , and as an extension of ourselves .
and to look at how do we process information , how do we record information ?
to say alone , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
many people use the word , they don &apos;t know what it means then .
but i have to understand in the core of understanding , in the nature , when information becomes information , when data becomes information , and from information , so that i know how to make things intuitive or manual afterwards .
and of course , also , how design affects perception .
we see this here , when i &apos;m forming things , i can confuse them like the right side where i don &apos;t know what salt and pepper or i can kind of design them intuitively by showing things .
so much more natural , in a pot , but i sort of see where salt and pepper is in there .
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll think about where on the right is .
and on the left , just intuitively accessing , and then hopefully i hope that there &apos;s no sugar in there that salt is just going to give you .
but also our perception of ourselves , how it fails us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the little one , although it &apos;s not the case at all , it &apos;s the same size , and yet our perception changes depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
so let &apos;s have a walk .
there it becomes more of my glasses already .
so it &apos;s n circle .
a second circle already starts to correlate or associate certain similarity .
and when i sit there for another halboval , suddenly we see not just one unit , which is circle , circle , and yet we see one unit , we don &apos;t see more three parts , one circle , one circle , another .
this is what &apos;s called the shape law , or the shape psychology , which also affects us in perception .
they care about the designers , they usually have it in the first semester , the great shape-shifting laws .
shape-shifted law of proximity and so on .
often in the third then , already forgot .
but that &apos;s an essential component , if you want to make things intuitively possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting , is looking .
first of all , sounds very banal , but it &apos;s so exciting that if you get closer to that .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking backwards from front to back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you &apos;ll see it from behind to front .
because they projieve an assumption forward that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that means we &apos;re only proposing our vision before we see it , bringing it back to the back of our seaweed to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve proved what you want to see .
that &apos;s there , then that &apos;s coming back .
then it goes forward again , because the one in the back doesn &apos;t look at the front and say , &quot; look , now really , please , and let &apos;s see if what you see is also what you want to see . &quot;
and then it goes back , and then it &apos;s actually just seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things happen and what these things happen for millisecond areas .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture .
there &apos;s exactly what i just described .
now everybody in this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who recognizes .
does anybody see anything particular ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i see that , this is a dalmatiner in there , you know .
they &apos;ll never forget it anymore , because i &apos;m going to show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you &apos;re looking at the dalmatiner .
and on , now you see him all the time .
that means , i &apos;ve actually roiled them now , that they don &apos;t recognize any pattern in it , but i &apos;ve condensed them within a very short period of time , to see this dog in this obscure picture .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know it , and now i &apos;m proving forward that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so very , very exciting processes , which then happen in this , yes , gray is actually not , but this is just in this brute mass .
does anybody know what three seconds are ?
long , yeah .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as a designer .
if i know it takes three seconds to kind of take a moment to get out of the present into the past loop , i can also bridge very well waiting times by employing somebody in three seconds .
he &apos;s only going to have to process that as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegant waiting times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what takes fifty milliseconds ?
yeah , milliseconds .
also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the period in which you fall in love .
that means pay attention , if you know this , watch who you look at for a long time , because i don &apos;t take a gun for what &apos;s going to happen .
and six milliseconds , also an exciting phenomenon .
this is the period of most of the perceptions we have .
that means that first impression is happening at a rapid speed , how we perceive things .
and as we see things too , what we &apos;re looking at and how we &apos;re kind of distorting ourselves against our environment so that we can think about them in a way .
of course , the creators are not just about the topic of perceptions and neural processing or cognitive processing , but of course primarily about the subject of human-object relations .
so how does a human being deal with certain things like this ?
there &apos;s once productively the practical functions , so you have formal aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are phone functions , where i know exactly where to reach .
but there &apos;s also symbolic functions , why does anybody spend such a little daily where there &apos;s hardly much in there anyway , so horrendous amount of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
there we are more at the symbolic level , at the level of meaning that we are engaging with as a creator , of course .
back to my actual theme , natural user interface and the subject , which is , of course , also about it , is usability .
usability always means how quickly i can achieve a certain goal , or how can a user reach a certain context of use effectively , efficiently and satisally and satisally achieve a goal .
that &apos;s what it says more like to the norm .
how can i make something possible using something friendly ?
can i use that directly , or can i need that manual , or i need that to come up with a training for it .
and less usable or usable it is .
that i &apos;m just doing this differently and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean it &apos;s better handable .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look at the software we just saw , partly , you &apos;ll understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is less intuitive or not based on anxious , including the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , although it &apos;s already much more intuitive than classic software .
and this is not only since apple that has an intuitive economic factor , elementary success factor , when i want to harness technology devices to people .
why ?
because usually we &apos;re through this new kind of usability , which is the natural user interface , for example , five times faster on average on our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softer , you need five hours and this new kind of natural software just an hour .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you can probably go home four hours more , but your employer , or anyone , asks you how to engage you with the four hours .
but i want to say , for us , of course , that it &apos;s a corresponding increase in achievement in certain things as well .
if we then go back to software area again , here &apos;s the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where you took months to deal with these systems .
then the next one , working with the nem neural model or mental model like the software eergonomists , you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to harness the computer .
so not more zeros and ones or cryptic code , but a metaphor .
this made it much more user-friendly , but of course it &apos;s much better .
the next generation of graphic interfaces is already working a lot more with behavior .
so as a creator , i form the behavior much more often than it looks .
this is also such a paradigm shift .
that i suddenly feel that it &apos;s becoming increasingly unimportant to success , right now the usability becomes an application .
and then if i go one step further into these natural user interfaces , where i , by voice , by touch , by gesture , by gesture , by mouse and cursor , i &apos;m even faster , and more immediate .
but that also leads me to the point , when do things get more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive , and then again , i have to punish my little friend here and see , what does that mean from the point of cognition , when is it really intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always an intuitive thing for us for humans to do if i have to think about it a little bit .
so he doesn &apos;t seem to like to think , but just make it very easy .
the less i think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
that means , if we look at the fact that we can transmit existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , then i can use that as a creator .
that means i can just transmit an intuitive human action model to software and make the software much more user-friendly .
of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive act of us humans , and now i &apos;ve already said .
this is what &apos;s called the osit-model .
this is what each of us and ovarying is an acronym and stands for guidance , for selective , informed , transformed .
each of you does that all the time , but it does it unconsciously , and that &apos;s kind of intuitive or partly instinctive .
the model is already being jumped out in the womb and is interculturally , so it works in the world at young and old , and it &apos;s used by us all the time , without most of us knowing that this model is available .
oslo has been turned on about 50 to 70 thousand times each of us to activity , so in the sleep , you &apos;ve noticed that it &apos;s then punished less often than it is on the day .
i can now orient this mental model of action , selective , informed , transmitted to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , much like the metaphor of the desktop , but now not anymore , a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of an action pattern , a action principles .
and this is on a higher degree of user friendliness than that of transmission to a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transmit this now , for example , by jumping on this as a supervision , by selecting , by informing in the trap , it &apos;s big at me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , i can transcend it somewhere in the throat or sending or sending and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
you know , everybody &apos;s eaten pies .
oversight : now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , can zoom out again , zoom in .
i &apos;ll get the whole overview , now i can filter on this , and i can say , just show me all chocolate things , for example .
and suddenly , there &apos;s an interface , which is significantly more intuitive and much more natural .
because that i can reach things like the bits , touch them , and they come to me is much more natural than when organized websites or other mechanisms can make them available , in a sense , to me .
imagination is more skill , and with that phrase , i &apos;d like to end with a and again reference , designers need to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , thank you very much for your attention and request .
i want to help you with a very particular aspect of curiosity .
the first thing is , when you grow up as a child , as a baby , you take care of what the message you have is , right ? and the more you have , the more or less in your parents have allowed you to play and to move , the more , the more in your curiosity , of course , is woven .
and the curiosity is not learning .
so they &apos;re all here , and they &apos;re curious , in fact , people who have a property you can &apos;t learn .
now i &apos;m about basically building this whole environmental discussion , global demise , 40 years of club-of-rome , into quality .
and there &apos;s a central point about this .
and it &apos;s related to phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
they spend about two grams of phosphorus every day , every day , and they have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
you can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as an amorphous mollus through the global ocean .
if we actually don &apos;t pick up phosphorus and give away .
what &apos;s amazing is that we &apos;re dealing with something that &apos;s actually self-understanding , but isn &apos;t that true .
because everybody talks about energy , but nobody talks about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we &apos;ve only been putting phosphorus for two years , and already now , through phosphorus mining , worldwide , has been putting a lot more uranium into the environment than are used in all the nuclear plants .
in the last 20 years alone , five thousand tons of uranium has been distributed in our fields in germany alone .
and we &apos;re going to pick that up .
it makes leukemia in kids .
and we think we &apos;d protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
so , for example , shake the environment , driving less car .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , consume less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s like , if i said , shoot your child , it only blew three times instead of five times .
this is just a little less destruction .
when we think of the weighs to the bail , our entire earth becomes a cemetery later , or later .
that &apos;s why thinking from weighs to weighs .
and the most important thing about this is looking at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over six percent of carbon is stored .
right now , we &apos;re growing corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30 tons per hectare , or calculating at the square meters .
that means we lose about five thousand times in the ground than we get reformed .
we can , of course , first look at the waste problem .
and everything is packaging or content .
for example , in openness , 20 percent of the garbage is now wind garbage .
and as we get older , the diapers get bigger .
this is all of you in the forward phase , in a sense .
yes ?
a baby needs about six diapers .
we could reduce that by 10 percent , of course , but what does that do ?
this is balanced in china in a second .
that &apos;s completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these diapers ?
this is evidence , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because phosphorus is emitted in the pigs over the solid ingredients .
people over the urine .
yeah .
so this is not what men can be pigs .
because this is what lights up with , right ?
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you tell the people that if you tell the people that exist , if you say that &apos;s better , you weren &apos;t there , they get refined and hostile .
and so somebody like al gore , one of our great heroes , says there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , they say , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites in this far as they &apos;re vegetarian .
that means that the ants weigh a lot more than us .
and because they work much harder physically than we do , and because they live only three to six months , they correspond to their weight , in energy use , something 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you can see how far we are from what we really wanted to get to and could be , and how sad we are that we are on earth at all , you can see that , for example , openbach has a program , until 20 , you want to be here with climaneul , right ?
you can only be climaneutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be grimmer than trees , right ?
yes ?
no tree is carbon neutral .
fortunately , not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon alone .
you &apos;ve heard about trees &apos; population problem before ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be grimmer than trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most strict bio-agriculture , it doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really have to go back into cycles .
and we &apos;re too many of them .
just about it .
that means we feel so guilty about ourselves on earth that we say . there &apos;s no bio-building , there &apos;s no bioland , there &apos;s no natural progression , and as you all say , that allow our own excrement to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
so we &apos;re too many .
it makes sense to be less harmful about oil consumption .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , right ?
you can only have nuclear missions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
so you can &apos;t solve this at all .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we &apos;re doing agriculture in brazil where we regain the nutrients .
in this way , we can get nutrients back from agriculture .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste from it directly .
in china , a post-doc is still called honey pots today , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we &apos;ve always been too stupid to bring back our nutrients .
that means that the whole western civilization-story is that the city has always taken something , but it &apos;s never given back to the farmers .
and in doing so , the cities had to grow more and more because the farmers were going into the cities , and the cities had to move on and on to bring their nutrients .
so all the western empires have always expanded until they haven &apos;t made the infrastructure anymore , and then they &apos;ve been imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve had breathless civilization over five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring back the nutrients .
even today , when you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting to eat the food that you &apos;re going to stay until you pick up the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients away .
you invited them to be used to eat , not to breeding theft .
that means you can see on the internet how to regain the nutrients .
the thing that &apos;s really nice about this is , if you do this , you know , agriculture , you produce biogas , you know , on a hectare of five thousand dollars in favelas , so a farmer can produce about a thousand dollars , and have the facility with it , chickens and pigs and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas is over ninety percent .
so we don &apos;t have to control people , to be less bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants are carrying themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this by the design that a farmer can just farm them .
that means that we &apos;re going back to crime .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw in a liter album so easily , and then the plant would be ruined for years .
it &apos;s not happening .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people , to be less bad .
we can support them to be good .
that means we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do something out of it , you write down in germany best suited by all the enlightenment facilities in france .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in openbach , but maybe they can help the frankers a little bit .
because the frankie facility could best recover the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it works through .
we &apos;ve been in holland for three years now .
the dutch government explained that they will be the first country in the world to extract phosphorus back .
but we need that in general .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70 percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus .
there &apos;s opec a bunch of orphanages .
that &apos;s six and 20 countries controlling 40 percent of the oil supplies .
and we &apos;re going to be able to replace the oil with other energy carriers .
but you won &apos;t be able to replace phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing one a little bit less bad , but it &apos;s about doing something right .
and first of all , to ask what &apos;s the right thing .
that means it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
of course , in holland , you understand this easier because in holland , of course , the country is built on flowers .
yes ?
imagine if your wife is sad , for example , if you &apos;ve angry you , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but it &apos;s all effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
one woman in germany eats about six point three kilograms in her lifetime .
this is it .
this is not exactly right scientifically , because we don &apos;t know how much throw away .
but a lip pen , even in that illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but very effective , right ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful about life is not efficient .
that &apos;s why not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
asking , what &apos;s the right thing to do ?
not to burn the sewage mud a little bit better and overlay it and lose all the materials for cycles in the burn facility , but first to ask about , how do you make cycles ?
imagine mozart being efficient .
yes ?
when i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a pill with open taste and a glass of water in it .
wonderful , huh ?
that &apos;s efficient .
all that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficiently ?
yes ?
that means that all that matters in life is not about saving , preventing , reducing .
the whole environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing that away is exactly the right thing , right ?
at every point where you throw away , from , yes , you create lifespans again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
in how we think from the north .
there &apos;s every footprint disadvantaged there .
if you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the bottom is going to die off the mosses , and the wind and the water is going to wash away the ground .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water is longer in the meadow .
so , it &apos;s about building a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but when i ask her , how do you do that with your wife ?
what do you then say ?
sustainable .
then i say , heart suffering , right ?
now this is the minimum .
so saving , cutting , avoiding , avoiding .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a chest when you see in italy , people in the high bow , they kick out of the car like ne coke can .
because , you know , this is a fun process .
it &apos;s the form of refour behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , there we go .
we &apos;ve developed , for example , an ice cream package , which is at room temperature , liquid .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it builds up everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can throw through the throat of biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful at it .
so there are two cycles that emerge .
not to be composable , of course .
a television or a washing machine , they just use it , they don &apos;t use it .
just the things that run away , like shoe skins , like brakes , like cars , that need to be so that they go to biological systems .
the things that are only used are going into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for the fact that you now help this company succeed in these products .
because we &apos;re not doing things more freely from us .
yes ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we find out what &apos;s in there .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in it .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in there that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes to be able to put the cavalier launch on the pedestrian light and the rubber can go into biological cycles , right ?
all of them are composable .
and if we succeed , of course , we can do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and mauritz , and all the textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s wastewater problems caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they help with it , they ask for people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve changed chairman two times now .
and i &apos;m not sure they really stay here .
so , help me with this a little bit .
but here we go .
yeah .
the one that &apos;s just been shown .
here we go .
we can do things now that , if you swallow , if you break , you can go into biological cycles .
technical cycles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct renaming system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , in fact , that &apos;s made to go back into the circulation .
again , so in any store , you can get things back .
when you get there , right ?
do you remember the winds again ?
when there &apos;s garbage right now .
these diapers are all around , almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
that &apos;s where the deponia are in front of you , but also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics , so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the waterstores , inside , that you can go back on a cellulosic basis , you can plant hundreds of fifty trees with a baby in israel or in tunisia .
yes ?
just if you take that nozzle , you shatter , sterilize and take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral , we can be climate positive .
it &apos;s about a behavior poop , in a sense .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute on this .
there are a lot of people working there now , and they can all engage .
there &apos;s an extra club to cradle-to-cradle-verge , where everybody can join .
so not more saving , cutting , avoiding , reducing , not debt management , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
thank you .
the interpret work .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , i , as an interpreter , stands to understand me as a translator , in english words .
interpreters are translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you have to understand not just the word &quot; text &quot; into a different language , but you have to understand the deeper sense of words and wortzus bias to make it a useful translation , anyone who has to do with foreign languages .
translate from german to english can require more knowledge once in a while when you &apos;re talking about poetry or even about poetry .
but it &apos;s alien to layman , what we do to musicians with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i have only the written notes .
you think that the composer has written into the notes exactly everything he came up with .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or as inaccurate as a verbal , even though very seemingly penile , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal landscape description , the smell is not to smell the flowers , the degree of the founder , just to guess not to hear the sawdust of the wind .
that means that the interpret has to translate these unprecedented notes of sound into another , which is audible , concrete , non-verbal music language .
today i want to leave you with what i used to translate music , which is interpreting , again , into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation of the translation .
so i prefer to do the whole thing in german , because if i had to translate it into english , it would be equivalent to me to translation the translation of translation .
so , the one that the music works for me is kind of like the spoken language .
the written notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read notes and press the keys corresponding on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
because these would be just the letters that you learned to paint .
the point of the letters is that you only recognize the language of it .
so for the learning process of music , at least as long as it is for spoken language .
now , there &apos;s a case where you learn it for practice , you just passively understand it , or you can also talk to the musical mother linguists .
the interpreter work begins rather like a theater director &apos;s work .
after first you &apos;ve chosen a piece of play , because you &apos;re excited about it , you go back and look at the origin of composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , the pockets , the notes , or if there are words , of composers themselves .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you compare it .
the motivations of writing it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances , like society and politics ?
all of this is what i &apos;m interested in .
you think into that time , for example , by looking at contemporary images or reading literature .
but also , over time , as an interpreter , you have a rich knowledge to play the composer you play more often , and it &apos;s going to make you feel easier and easier to think into it .
the composer becomes more and more to the friend you live with .
his cause of writing the piece becomes more and more to my personal cause of playing it .
now that the notes are an accurate record of the composer , but only a framework , now i &apos;m applying this framework to refill it with meaning and meaning .
i then say in my own words , what might be written between this framework ?
i play games explaining what these notes might have .
now for me and for the composers , and what you might mean for them today .
every sound , every phrase , gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my own right now .
it has to be coherent to me in this room and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s always a very happy concert over and over again , if i may have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve worked out for so long in advance , how to experience new .
how to experience a happy new day over and over again , although with the same rituals of life , getting up , breakfast , going to work , i &apos;m doing the same piece over and over again .
i grew back a day when the seasons change , my pulse goes slower than in the morning , in a concert hall , takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i &apos;m going to notice the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this affects me , and all of this also affects my experience with composition .
it &apos;s quite wonderful when i &apos;m standing on stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
then the same thing happens in a good , appropriate conversation .
you bring a new idea in , and at the same time that &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things don &apos;t happen that we tried and that you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s a lot of fun to make music that way , and you as the audience have experienced how the music is communicating alive .
so every concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play anything like this anymore .
i can &apos;t play today as much as i do in 20 years .
and i &apos;m going to have more life experience than i do today , so my palette of music will have much more color nuances , more emotions and emotions than it is today .
sure , i &apos;m going to throw out some color pots too , but also get some new ones .
have a nice example of this .
it was on a piano curse for music students with my beloved old teacher , professor jzurude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longtime professor of music college here in stuttart .
unfortunately , i was much too young so that he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very lucky to meet him very early , three years old , and so i was already in my school class .
i was seventh 10 when i went back to one of his courses and played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late work .
he asked me what was the introduction of this ballad for me .
that &apos;s such a proper part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
and he was shooting and saying , right ?
that has to be the difference in aging .
because to me , it means memory .
he was already over his sixties .
well , when you &apos;re seven , you still have dreams , but you don &apos;t have major memories .
i play the play every few years today and it &apos;s changed for me even though not a single note has changed .
it &apos;s exciting every time , because every time i read something new .
one example from a very different area . monet painted the seerosis x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but it &apos;s different daytime , different light .
he &apos;s translated the serosis differently , as he saw it , as they were working on it at that moment .
his personal impressions of the seerosis .
the x unique interpretation of a piece is comparable to that .
i &apos;ve also been older than chopin at two and a half years old when he wrote the piece .
he lived only nine years .
and i &apos;m important to keep looking at the notes , even though i think i can memorize them .
to keep twin praks , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
especially when he &apos;s already died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about as long as spoken language .
often the music class is so that you learn to read the notes .
you learn to read practically first before you speak just one word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
then if all of the fingers in time and really like the notes are moving , they come out with sounds that sound like music together .
when the error is happening , the student gets the next difficult piece .
interpretation is barely spoken in the beginning class .
all right , there &apos;s front of presto , this is a fast piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and purchase and f and so on .
that &apos;s what most of you know here .
but even if you translate those anxiety , there &apos;s still only something technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
i wonder that you often forget something very elementary .
that to make music on the instrument , your musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that &apos;s what singing .
a child who hasn &apos;t learned to sing because it &apos;s not going to happen to the parents by themselves .
this is like talking learning .
it &apos;s necessary to have your own experiences and your idea of music , and then to have it across another possibility , so through an instrument , to sound .
people who never sat , so they never felt immediately with their own body what it &apos;s like to form a sound .
design a phrase with its own breath .
because the musical instrument is the extension of our bodies .
to sing our vocal chords , our hands and feet to dance .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my finger .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm of the dance .
the constant coverage today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself if you &apos;re bored .
no longer need to whistle or sing a song .
every music is made up when you &apos;re constantly summed by music from the outside .
sure , there are some of you who say yes , but what do you do when i can &apos;t sing ?
i ask you , can you not sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they haven &apos;t learned how to sing ?
both of them aren &apos;t too late to start with to see if they can &apos;t , or learn how to use these little muscles that hire the vocal chords right .
because you can train that .
or c , because they &apos;re accused of being disqualified .
because i ask , how skillfully competent was this diagnosis ?
have you already gotten a second or a third opinion , as you say today , beautiful ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , so you don &apos;t want to have nix .
but what i would regret then is that music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can still reverse them .
well , you know , on all cases , no one has to be a reckless candidate .
but don &apos;t say that , please , i don &apos;t understand the classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and i say that , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think it says it , i don &apos;t know if it tastes me because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t get rid of food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to give up classical music either , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say it tastes you or not .
whether the music is too embarrassed or too sweet to you .
say what you feel .
over time , you get claims , and you want some more spices to be in there , or even taste fine differences .
why do i ask from my audience that it &apos;s also actively listening ?
because the music is a language , and a language is a language to communicate there .
a piece of art you never look at has no force to work .
the food that was cooked by a chef or a chef has to be eaten has to be eaten and not just beaten out by a chef .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice sound record .
if in an environment where adults are actively making music , or at least hearing active music , a child is growing up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color is your flower ?
can you play them in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial , rather than a red flower , now , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different from before .
this was the very first beginning of a musical expression .
so the first step to interpretation .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred years ago , two hundred or three hundred years ago ?
now the instruments have moved on .
there was no piano at all when bachs was an instrument .
it was just not invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if it had the sound possibilities of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can make the sound that the stream has had today on the modern wing , which a barockle cembalo can &apos;t do .
beethoven also knows that he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play anything that a orchestra of back then has rejected as unplayable .
so the composers depend on us , reinventing the pieces again .
so they can be audible , which they &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and what you would think of today in the spirit as well .
or what i &apos;m foremost about today is what you might have thought .
thank you .
you know what &apos;s envy ?
have you ever been envy ?
and how did that feel ?
suck .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
when i come , with my little v piesel and i &apos;m wrong , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting through my head a little bit .
i say , ulf , what do you need to do about this big car ?
that &apos;s already losing half his value in the first year .
and even , you work much less than i did .
why do i have to afford little car like this ?
and then i immediately come in , which is unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , that unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism invented a great way to make such uncomfortable emotions like envy easy to disappear .
you can also try that in words like revenge or profitable or something .
i want to explain to you about this mechanism today or get something that you &apos;re unlikely to be familiar with .
the mechanism is from the lie .
but don &apos;t think about the lie as you may have heard , when people say nobody has the intention of building a wall .
and then he picks up stones so he blends them .
on a lie like this , you see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s very easy to check that it has a very different sense of purpose .
he &apos;s just deceiving you and not himself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about has to do with the fact that you deceive of yourself .
you need that lie to make a living lie to sustain a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , to check or to fall .
you need time .
this is the time when an anecdote talks about , which you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained , the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her at all .
picasso says , wait a minute .
it gets more and more like that .
at this point , and when you &apos;re laughing , you can see how important that lie is and how much time you need to learn something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a disrupted relationship to lying .
the artist shares something to you , and especially this lady , who she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist shares something to you in such a portrait that you only become familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
then that uncomfortable feeling disappears , it couldn &apos;t look like you , and it gets more and more similar to you .
here you have this mechanism where we can use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lifestyles .
and not only in art , even in the folk where in mythology , it appears in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning asking him , who &apos;s the most beautiful thing in the country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility comes from this real estate , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , comes from this real estate .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful one somewhere else .
here &apos;s what we need under policing correctness to bring over and over again .
we need this lie at this point that keeps us deception without which we can &apos;t live .
not only do we have in art , in which people &apos;s poetry , but also in science , we have such great lies .
and there &apos;s this story about the woman of the bishop of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the descent of man .
that the human being was supposed to come from the monkey and , yes , there was at least a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran to her husband and said , &quot; that &apos;s probably not true what charles wrote . &quot;
man is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , no , it &apos;s not .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from knowing it .
why do we need to prevent people from knowing something if it &apos;s true ?
because without that lifespan , we can &apos;t live without .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , this ancestry of the highest beings , not of such a natural deception , of something as unpredictable as an organism that still exists , comparable to a stone , and whatever else , that &apos;s unstoppable to us .
so , we can &apos;t make these things happen at all .
we need to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so in order for you to see how slowly this mechanism will resolve and what the traces it will be that it will take behind , that it will lead to something else but this great picture of ourselves , i want to give you a different story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
she told me .
she came to school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she said about a student .
an autistic student .
she likes it especially because he has a tilt to sincerity .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m in the fire department .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re a hot person at this point . something &apos;s wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral framework uses the word , because , you know , we should try to replace it through the word .
do that once , and then you learn the sentence .
although i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel that this is the real truth behind the emergence .
this is a little bub that doesn &apos;t care about fire .
they &apos;re interested in fire .
but there are no clues that we can look around where you learn how to do fire .
there &apos;s only the second best part , the fire department .
there he is signing up .
and overall , you don &apos;t tell your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere and you &apos;re delighted when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks much better if we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others are only creating when they lay fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this indication of the fact that in the heart of the bub , it was actually related to the fire , but it can &apos;t say it out loud .
here you have this censor between the unconscious and the conscious one who jumps immediately without you being able to do something about it , and the things you know it looks very different , so you can sound much better for you and others .
so it just creates the words that we use over and over again in the language of politically correct speech .
we actually know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we say that , social relationships are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
i want to show you what we found at my institute .
after what logic of this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one we actually know in the unconscious way that it &apos;s valid to spread outside .
i want to present to you two , maybe three examples as well .
the first example assumes what many of you know and some of you estimate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean , the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is something like this , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not gavage of material , material nature .
and if you have people who are convinced that they have a soul , or you can say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought to life by the soul , then they imagine that it &apos;s sort of like a spiritual framework that they have , not out of matter , themselves , but out of meat and blood , a little bit of stone , into the earth , sort of built , convenient , unimportant , dead , yes .
and of that soul , you think that it &apos;s kind of present in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , called the lufthalso in latin , which is present .
and then when that air hall comes pouring over people , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature , which can only live , yes with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we &apos;re supposed to think of them as something that is supposed to be present to our lives .
and if you have that premise in mind , you understand the logic that we experience happiness with can improve our world through a lie .
because now you can apply a three-set .
three paragraph you still know from school .
now that &apos;s a three-sentence here that describes a logic .
that &apos;s the hardest part in my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
that &apos;s to lie in a way that you can just misuse this logic .
in that three-sentence , three sentences appear .
the first sentence is , claim , there are no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i highlighted it especially here .
a third sentence that immediately appears in people who have a strong sense of soul .
they say who has no soul , who &apos;s dead , and cannot say anything at all .
and here you feel it already .
here comes this logic in this , yes , in this deceptive talk , for expression .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say anything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a statement on reality .
i can say the canadian is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the channel is a man .
if i &apos;m wrong , the channel is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point of what &apos;s true .
i can say anything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when cloning says there are no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our fooling consciousness feels immediately , you can do something out of it .
it &apos;s a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences that pretend that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and assumed .
because in fact , we have to prove whether there &apos;s the soul or not .
but with this logic that it &apos;s easy to use , that two sentences are logically correct and a third adjusted that looks like he has something to do with it , so we can save our livelihood .
so , we pretend it &apos;s actually impossible to live without a soul .
and we &apos;re very happy about this .
we can continue these things in different examples .
for example , in the present day , we have a very modern example that keeps filling daycare .
you have to think of another philosophical issue , a permanent combustion from philosophy , present .
this has to do with the fact that we go back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar called johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel named .
the burial esel is an esel made up of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is such a natural thing .
and if you place the exact act act act act between two equal hairs , it gets hungry .
because he doesn &apos;t know what haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how natural things are presented .
equally large forces with opposite signs dissolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing going on at all .
only if you can take another example , so immediately if you make a pile of people bigger , it doesn &apos;t need to have any reason , and it doesn &apos;t need anything to do that .
automatically , it &apos;s going to be the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re kind of determined in nature by the larger pile that attracts you immediately , you have to feel like there must be such a thing as a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and they sometimes say , wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom for it .
now we can rebuild the second sentence , and we can say , if wolf is right , he doesn &apos;t have any freedom .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper almost every day , find that in that third sentence .
it looks something like this , if you don &apos;t have any freedom of willingness , you can &apos;t get pulled to account for your actions and claims , and it &apos;s therefore unsustainable .
again , here you have it again .
in fact , first of all , you have to prove whether there &apos;s such a thing as freedom .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of the preceding is wrong , like , of course , taking the opposite without proof .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself if you want to test anything , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice this , for example , once you meet a human being that you can say there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for predictors , which is prophet .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit politically incorrect .
you say there are no predictors .
immediately , they &apos;re going to experience one that , of course , makes such a prediction , you can &apos;t prove that .
and you already have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy making it clear that you can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived them .
because he &apos;s led them to a feather where he doesn &apos;t stop himself .
because in fact , this person is not interested in evidence at all .
he &apos;s just interested in unleashing himself from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the kind of shift of evidence , you see the magnificence of the lie .
and once again , if you have this opportunity to feel this three-set in other people , you do it because you &apos;re going to make other people happy if you don &apos;t remember them in this way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good afternoon .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention them .
she &apos;s one of the organizers here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and prize my idea .
i have to say , you got it with me at the beginning , it was hard for me to talk about my idea .
and i want to introduce you to my island project , that i &apos;m trying to imagine you .
but of course , it &apos;s the sum of a lot of ideas .
i &apos;m probably hearing , the two nice girls are still there , i &apos;m probably one of the generation that &apos;s been sent to this bad oko image , because i &apos;ve already started studying machine construction in cardboard rough , technical college , i think , today , she says , kit .
and then it moved me to berlin in the mid-80s because i wanted to do renewables , and that didn &apos;t exist in cardboard quiet .
there was the core research facility called the leopoldshaven .
it was all called the kfa at the time , also the jewish one was called kfa .
the names of the project today .
because a good engineer either built cars or made nuclear power plants .
but doofes like &apos; n solar pendulum , from which kind of comes out a hundred watts from the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collective .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola human being that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the fall of the mouth , you couldn &apos;t use the word anymore , because everything on the left was bad .
but it wasn &apos;t like that in the &apos; 60s .
it was just that there were self-administered alternative operations , and one of them was sitting in cross-country clubs where you suspected evil .
location of terrorism , but that was called knew tronics and made wind and solar , and that &apos;s where i started in the middle of the eighth century .
and yes , a lot of what was said today is what i &apos;m very touched by , because many , many beautiful expressions were with what i also lived through .
i worked in the collectively for 11 years , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
when a no said it was the vetoprinzip , which has completely crashed you . i &apos;ve been hard for 10 years to tell you whether i was doing my great engineering study , maybe really , really , to a dazzling thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues were always talking to him , you &apos;ve taken out the money to the window in your child .
it &apos;s about insanity .
and this was really , really bitter , and you get in such a period , and it showed up to a picture where i wondered , after 10 years , there was a thousand mark , which was , you know , basic wage , you know , in the collective of course , whether it should be really the great thing to do .
and then i ran it up to six and a half , and then we got along with friends of mine , i became the co-founder of the solon , which then became one of the largest cell makers in the world .
a huge history of energy , but also there , of course , we have the problem of a growing company , and we have then two-thousandth , a small group of them decided that we start small again and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next topic of the future , and that , i think , is again crazy , which is starting again with people saying what the nonsense of the nonsense of doing , we don &apos;t talk about talking about talking .
and i brought a project to you that i want to introduce you to now .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how do you get a hundred percent renewables ?
and we just started asking a relatively simple story of where could you use a memory of sensory today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azors .
yeah , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people living there .
they have a five-tenths renewable energy rate today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t they have it anymore ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
when they grow more wind power together , the system starts to fail .
this is what i always tell politicians when they &apos;re in berlin adlershof our facilities .
they always say , why ?
we already have 20 percent in germany .
you can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our web is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island have .
the question was simple , calculated that was two-thousand2006 , the first contacts with the island started , but just through .
how big would you actually have to be that kind of battery so that you could get an island of 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even 70 percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;ll go back one more slide .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical power is built on the same basis of the world .
that &apos;s the performance of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very fast everywhere .
the energy hunger in the world that &apos;s happening is wiped out with this el , because you don &apos;t need permission .
this is fast .
you put it like this , ne box .
and then it usually looks like this .
in that process , three of them run , two of them are always waited .
yeah , this is what one of the things that &apos;s down there , is the load .
we also got very precise data .
and the wind power system , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system that can only store in small quantities here .
our goal was to just say , okay .
the el will be back-up , and the wind , the sun will serve the burden so that you can map the larger proportion .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewables every year , so energy per year , not the performance at the moment , you have to turn off the el .
that means , at that moment , you have to make sure that renewables can take over the entire web , in a sense .
of course , you can only do that if you &apos;re manned in some way here .
no one in the world has ever done this yet .
this is what &apos;s on a small scale , so you can also use your razors in the car over a small change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing in adlershof ?
it &apos;s already done .
but if you want to team up several of these interiors and they want to build a network , it becomes extremely complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get up to 70 to nine percent renewable , and then there &apos;s this rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable with it , which is going to be very , very expensive , and it &apos;s not going to work that you do it from batteries .
that &apos;s definitely going to be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know it or sh , that &apos;s going to be it .
they have to go on a seasonal memory and balance winter summer and not just tag-night .
we just wanted to know what happened to a normal electrochemical battery .
how far do you even get there ?
and then they did a whole bunch of simulations .
and wind and sun simulated , and the load came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion that you could get to the conventional system , which takes a middle strain of about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour after 20 years , about 40 cents a kilowatt-hour .
these were the very first calculations , six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , it &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than that if the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanes .
what would all it have to be done ?
have negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve looked for new social shepherds .
we were only five people at the time to rebuild a society .
and here &apos;s the picture again .
the brown is , in a sense , the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re going to do 20 percent with this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which is the electricity supply company on the island , meant we love that .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and so in berlin , we decided to build a hall where , in a sense , we can map the electrical ratios of the island one to three very precisely .
that means we first looked for the largest battery in the world .
here it is .
it comes from asia , naturally , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , she &apos;s been developed at bbc mannheim , today abb , and then she &apos;s licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see .
it has a megawatt power , and it can get that power for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery we kind of got simulating technology out of it .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of the same size aggregate that it sits there , put it into the hall to actually simulate the entire dynamic behavior of this web , so in the halle it looks like this , there &apos;s the big battery in the back here , there &apos;s all the judge that we simulate the web .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers of cables , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the web .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn on the web for two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics .
here we see the one again here , the one again , the whole aggregate , again .
and what we did since two-thousandth was the halle was finished , until today , two-thousandths of almost everything that was here between the single system of electronics , of software , we did .
so we &apos;re not a battery maker , but we &apos;re defined as a company that &apos;s only between the topic of battery and the theme of the web and everything in between .
you have to communicate , of course , to the battery , you also have to be able to communicate into the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the nice thing about this island is that you can basically do everything that we &apos;re going to get today if we want to increase our percentage of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is it going to move back and forth right now , energy turning , like walking , for example , on the island , we have five to 30 percent excess energy , so we have to dismiss the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers the smart grid .
so smart-grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electrical mobility on the island before , ask around , because you can manage the burden .
that means , if you &apos;re renewable at 70 percent , you &apos;re not going to be able to do it without storage .
you can go through the n smart grid , you can build the nets , yes , you should definitely be able to hear the percentage , but you &apos;ll never be able to give up the memory completely .
and that &apos;s the message , &apos; n little bit .
that &apos;s why a lot of people also come and look at it , because you can see what problems you get .
when we turn off the el , you don &apos;t have that rotating mass that causes a certain amount of inertia on the web .
and our european network is basically just made up of noisy rotating masses of large power plants , where the wave is always the same all over europe .
we look inside this web , we see the 50 hertz , and when it gets nine-and-twenty comma nine hertz , we start making some valves , we go back up a little bit of a steam , we come back up again .
that &apos;s the system .
and of course , this is incredible treaties .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a long time .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the web stable .
and in time , you can react to other people .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with productivity and electrochemistry .
and we can turn two milliseconds off with this big battery .
you can see already what there is tremendous speed possibilities there .
and the message is , we need to give up these rotating masses , if we say , our goals are 20 , 20 , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to achieve them at all .
then we have to break down our brast-run capacity on the web .
must-run is just , the power plant is running to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , building the coal plants , because we don &apos;t otherwise , or gastorbining , because it &apos;s not possible .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can break down the capacity , the must-run capacity , by also putting electrochemical storage on the web .
and fortunately , there &apos;s also a lot of studies to do that now .
and then at that point , people always come and look at our temptation at which , sort of , our island test .
and yes , the discussion is all about the question of how far can you take a piece of the far future ?
and a lot of the discussions i &apos;ve had in the last six years were similar to the discussion i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years on photovoltaics .
if it &apos;s not , it &apos;s insane , it &apos;s a child &apos;s toy , we &apos;ve done everything , we &apos;ve never calculated .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is preconceived .
and i just think that in the next 30 years , we &apos;re going to have the same capacity of electrochemical storage all over the world .
simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to happen .
there will be such a whole bunch of residents and arguments .
the beauty is that i &apos;ve actually experienced , sort of , in the last two years now , that the scientists are standing on my side .
we &apos;ve gotten over 10 million projects now , even to climb 10 megawatt-battery to the german web .
this is going to happen in the next april .
so from that , you &apos;re also realizing that there &apos;s a change there and only from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewables , that &apos;s like a self-sustaining system .
so far in discussions , these insulans , they make self-sustaining , they have their own little net , which has to do with our connected and nothing to it .
the question is , if you &apos;re totally independent of any fossil or uranium energy that &apos;s being drilled out anywhere in the world , you &apos;re an island .
then you just use what &apos;s present to the sun and to the wind where you live .
and that &apos;s kind of like our vision of reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle for saying they &apos;re using solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and as far as we do , premium kola &apos;s talk is you can be a collective again and use solar energy , a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little crazy and also have a vision .
and you really have to stay quite tough about it , but i think it &apos;s going to be done .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist of the los angeles times , went through the streets one day in the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin , who had only two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steves &apos;s article on it later , a book that was filmed again , with robert downey junior when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassistant who was studied at the juilliard conservatory , and whose promising career was tragically finished by his paranoid schizophrenia early on .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row in the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steves book or to watch the film so that not only did you understand the wonderful connection that was born between these two men , but also how music helped to connect that , and how it eventually was the instrument when that word game was allowed to get mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in the walt disney hall .
he had just heard a demo by beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony and came behind the stage to imagine myself .
he spoke in a very hot and social note about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton , and how the dodgers would never get into baseball world series , and all of this because of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
we came up with the theme of music , and a few days later i got an email saying nathaniel was interested in me for self-training .
i have to mention that nathaniel was rejecting medical treatment because he was already treated with electric shocks and thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma he pursued all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s especially vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases now , which are sometimes so bad , and he disappears for days in the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and torture of his own mind .
and in exactly one of those lovely stages , nathaniel was when we started with our first lectures in the walt disney art hall , and he had this irre flatter in his eyes and worked completely out .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in their sleep .
i was afraid , not opinion , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could sink into one of his states , and that i could destroy his relationship with the violin when i started talking about pitches and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic gardening .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence by beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and as i was playing , i noticed that in nathin &apos;s eyes , a complete change was happening .
it was like it was under the impact of an invisible doctor &apos;s disease , a chemical reaction whose catalyst was my game .
nathaniels of manic anger turned into understanding , into a quiet curiosity and courage .
and as with a miracle , he took his violin and he started playing some clips of violin concerts , and then he asked me to end up playing : menu son , tshaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pekka salons .
and i realized that he had not only an encyclopedic knowledge about music , but connected it to a close personal relationship .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding i &apos;ve only known of my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , from this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , a loving , educated , sketched , skilled musician in juilliard .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes its tormented state .
i understood that this is the nature of art .
that &apos;s why we &apos;re doing music : so that we can do something that &apos;s inside us all deep , our emotions , through our artistic lens , can form through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches us all , and moves , inspired and united .
in terms of nathaniel , the music brought him back into a community of friends .
the redeeming power of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood his talent and looked at him .
and i &apos;m going to keep making music with nathaniel , whether it &apos;s at the walt disney , reverberation , or skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve stolen , inevitably , the cellist .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i knew a lot of fish in my life .
i only loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate affair .
it was a beautiful fish , tastier , good consistency , rich , a best seller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquulture after the most supposedly highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with that beauty for several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could speak at an event about the sustainability of the farm .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company trying to solve what this unimaginable problem has become for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menus ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the oceans as we &apos;ve beat the forests of kahn .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish , the ones we love , the tunas , the heilbutte , the salmon , heavy fish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so probably or evil aquulture , fisheries , will be part of our future .
a lot of arguments about it . fishing plants contaminate the environment , most of you anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . it &apos;s a big disadvantage .
it has a 15 to one food delay .
that means that 15 pounds of wildfish are needed to get a pound of sugar .
not very sustainable .
not very tasty either .
so here was finally a company that was trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call him don .
don , i said , &quot; just to have the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the sea that you &apos;re not polluting the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added in , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of our own .
this food commercial from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one thing ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; great , &quot; i said .
and that evening , i lay in bed , and i thought , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day , i called , just before the event , don &apos;t do it .
i said , &quot; don , for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask .
well , i had a telephone with a few people in the company , and nobody could give me an awful answer , until i finally got telephone with the senior biologists .
let &apos;s also call it don .
don , i said , &quot; what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , remains , dried and processed to feed . &quot;
i said , &quot; what percentage of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the assumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t you , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long pause in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
i loved this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous and well-intentioned .
that &apos;s me .
no , i actually loved this fish because , you know , i swear to god , who &apos;s smashed fish after this conversation after chicken .
that second fish , that &apos;s a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way in which the better you know your fish , the more you love the fish you love the fish .
i first ate it in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friends of journalists had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s sort of wired us up .
he came up with a light , almost sharp white color .
the chef had cooked it .
hold on twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish so tastier after they &apos;ve been cooked ?
i can &apos;t do it , but this guy can do it .
let &apos;s call it miguel . it &apos;s actually called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and it &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the mouth of the river guadalquivir .
up until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they grew meat on what was essentially wetlands .
they did it by dewatering the country .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out from the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make sure that worked , not economically .
and green , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which are a lot of birds in this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental consciousness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve converted the flow of water around .
they literally moved the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the canals to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 hectares of fish -- bark , seaweed , shrimp , aal -- and miguel and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they stare at the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see is flood channels and this dense , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there long ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to the kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were , fighting through the wetlands and i sweat , having power up to my knees , and miguel holds a biology lecture in quiet .
this is him highlighting a rare glitaway .
now he &apos;s mentioning the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , here he sees a pattern of concentrations that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel has spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know anything about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls in more talk about rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community , unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had the before .
so i interrupted him . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish tastes so good ? &quot;
he pointed at the algae .
&quot; i know boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what &apos;s the food waste ? &quot;
well , he goes on to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , that &apos;s what the fish feed .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-refreshing .
there &apos;s no food .
ever heard of a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals ?
later on the day , i went around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
the moment a film director had demanded a stage change .
and we bent around the corner , and we offered the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of pinker flamingos , a literally pink carpet so far as the eye is .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your herbs , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you wear your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish to the birds .
now , last year , on this site , there were 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest and one of the most important private reserves in all of europe today .
i said , &quot; miguel , is there a well-thriving avian population not the last thing you want on a fish store ? &quot;
he shook his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re growing existential , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the more pink the belly the system is better . &quot;
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals and a farm that measures its success on the health of their predators .
a fish lift , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos should not even be there .
they breed in a city 240 kilometers away , where the land composition is better for nest maintenance .
every morning they fly to the farm for 2,000 miles .
and every night they fly back 240 kilometers .
they do it because they can follow the strictly white line on the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had a kind of a journey in penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , are you going to fly to the farm for 240 miles and then fly back to the night ?
do they do it for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me like i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . they do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it suck . i don &apos;t like it crushed .
it &apos;s this fun , charged taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried her in this restaurant in southern spain , she didn &apos;t brush up for fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you took a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin seems like a sponge .
she &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
it &apos;s evolved throughout evolution to look at the contaminants . &quot;
and then he said , &quot; but our water has no contaminants . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success with its predators .
and then i realized , when he says that a farm that has no dishes , it drives tremendous because the water that flows through that farm comes in from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that leads all the things that rivers now tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , waste of pest fatalities .
and when it &apos;s fought through the system , and that leaves the water is cleaner than it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not only is it a farm that not only feed its animals , not only is it a farm that measures its success in the health of its predators , but a farm that is literally a water treatment plant , not only for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it decreases in the atlantic .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i take it , and you should do that , because this love story , like romantic , is also close .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radically new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for a lot of people , that &apos;s a little too radical .
we &apos;re not realistic , we &apos;re enjoying . we &apos;re lovers .
we love farmers &apos; markets . we love small family operations . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and when you say these are the things that are going to insure the future of good food somebody gets up somewhere and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how are they going to feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
no , not because we &apos;re producing enough calories to feed the world more than just feeding .
one billion people will starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crashes in distribution , not in production .
well , i don &apos;t like that question because it &apos;s shaped the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feeding grain of herbivores , pests of monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken from fish , and all the time the agribusiness just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how awful can that be ? &quot;
that was the reason . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , an ad in progress , an industry that quickly asks ecological capital that will allow that production to happen .
this is not an ad , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our cornchamber is now threatened , not because of the declining train , but because of the declining resources .
not through the latest powers and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaw , but through forests , not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish .
they want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model of the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are at obenan , and it never really produced anything good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
this is the one that goes back to two billion years of working .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , businesses that restore rather than use up , businesses that grow existential , rather than just intense , farmers that are not only generators , but experts for relationships .
because they &apos;re the ones who are also the flavor experts .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , i &apos;m right , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it &apos;s going to be delicious .
thank you .
if i want to close to you today , it &apos;s that the sum of the data that we consume is greater than the sum of its parts , and rather than thinking about information overload , i want you to think about how we can use information to make patterns emerge , and we &apos;re seeing trends that otherwise wouldn &apos;t have been seen .
so , what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical dying diagram organized by age .
the program i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a particular cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and immediately i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle of here , the people are the most active and they &apos;re the most charged over here .
we can go one step further and then rearrange the data and see that cycles and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now as we move on and take care of age , say 40 years or younger , we see that accidents are actually the main cause of what people should worry about .
and if you look at research , this is especially true with men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way , it &apos;s very much reminded of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why can &apos;t it be content itself ?
what we have here is the cover of each one of the sports illustrated swims , which have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it in your rooms after my talk .
with pivot , you can immerse in a decade .
you can immerse yourself in a particular year .
you can jump directly to a particular issue .
now when i look at this , i see the athletes that appear in this issue and the sports .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click on this , which is what lance armstrong is all about .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , could i think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything in bike driving ? &quot;
so i take a step back , and i take a look at it .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , more targeted , broader , zoom in , you don &apos;t look for it or you don &apos;t just surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little different .
it &apos;s a little bit in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
now i want to take this idea a little bit further with something like what &apos;s a little crazy .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediaset and reduced it to a little summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipedias .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the issues that are most popular about wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government now .
now , after i elected government , i know that the wikipediacatories that cover most of the time magazine are people of the year .
this is really important , because this is a realization that &apos;s not in a single wikipediaseite .
this is just to say , if you go back and look at the whole thing .
looking at a particular set of summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see them all together .
now if i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science . some , even less , come from business . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you can see , we &apos;re surfing on the web for the first time that it &apos;s really a web , not only from page to side , but from much more abstract .
and so i want to show you what else might be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just showing you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites with it -- and we bring this zoom technology to every single website like this .
so i can go back a step , and jump directly to a specific section .
this is why important , because you can only look at web pages in this way , look at the entire internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in on my trajectory in a given time frame .
here &apos;s the state of the whole demonstration i gave to this point .
and i can sort of bring back everything i &apos;ve looked at so far .
and when i step out again and look at everything , i can rearrange my trajectory maybe looking for my search past , and here , i &apos;ve been looking for nepotistic here for bing , or looking for live labs .
and from here , i can go into the side and call it up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the big picture bigger than the sum of the data .
right now , in this world , we think data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information flow .
we &apos;re talking about drowning into information .
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet upside down , so that instead of always going from one to the other , we can start to go from a lot of things to a lot of things , and by seeing patterns that otherwise remained most hidden ?
if we can do that , this current data trap will make sense of a new source of information .
and instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge from it .
and if we know , maybe we can pull wisdom out of it .
i &apos;ll stop there , thank you very much .
i grew up with a hearing portion of science fiction .
in my school years , i went to school with the bus every day , one hour per distance .
and my nose was always in a book , a science fiction book , which kidnapped my mind into other worlds and sort of told my deep inside of me , insatiable curiosity .
this curiosity also showed that whenever i was not in school , i went through the forests and collected samples and frogs and beetles and beetles and dough water , all brought them home and looked under the microscope .
i was totally passionate about science , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and expose the limitations of what &apos;s possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to be reflecting in my environment , because in the late &apos; 60s , we went to the moon and studied the deep sea .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of wonder we could never have imagined before .
that &apos;s probably quite well adapted to that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there were no video games or overwhelming with computer-generated films or all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to . when we read a book as a child , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my response to that was drawing and painting of alien worlds , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft ships and all that kind of thing .
in math education , i was always caught by the teacher , hiding behind the textbook , painting around .
creativity had to sort of get out .
and something interesting happened to me , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteau &apos;s shows was the idea of an entirely unknown world here on our own earth .
i certainly would never reach an alien world with a spaceship , and it seemed pretty unlikely to me .
but here was a world i could actually enter here on earth , and it was as fascinating and exotic as all the things i had imagined when i read these books .
so when i was 15 , i decided to become diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada a thousand kilometers from the nearest ocean .
i didn &apos;t discourage myself of that .
i buffalo my father until he finally made a diving school in buffalo , new york , on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my dive in a pool of ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to face two years later when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that have now been denied , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the shallow oceans , is as rich as we can really barely imagine .
nature &apos;s imagination doesn &apos;t know borders , unlike our own , bright human imagination .
to this day , i feel deep awe of what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean keeps with the same intensity as eh and ever .
so when i went looking for a job as an adult , it was in the filmmaking .
this seemed the best way to tell my inner drive to tell stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a child , i was always drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring images and stories together . it fit together .
of course , the stories i chose were from science fiction : terminator , aliens , and abyss .
at &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my preference to the underwater world , and the diving with the filmmaking .
so my two passions sort of intertwined .
something interesting happened at abyss : to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water -- we took back on computer-generated animation , cg .
what came out of it was the first computer-generated software surfing figure to ever see in a movie .
now , the film didn &apos;t bring any money , he just played his production costs , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized from the magic that went away .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , famously , advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and that was incredibly exciting to me .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , this must be involved in movie art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next movie , much further .
together with ilm , we created the guy in liquid metal , and the success depended on how this effect would happen .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve entered a little bit more money with the film .
from those two experiences , a whole new world has reached , a whole new world of creativity for film creators .
so i started a company with my good friend stan winston , who was the best makeup designer and creator designer at the time , called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip over the analog processes with optical printers , etc . , and start with digital productions .
we did that , then , and we got a competitive advantage for time .
but in the mid-1990s , we realized that in the creatureate and circular design -- which we had actually started the company -- we were getting too slow .
i had written this piece of &quot; avatar , &quot; which was to push the knife of things that were visual effects and computer generators throughout new heights with realistic human , expressive characters made using cg , and the main characters should be all cg . and the world should be cg .
but the measurement was quite beautiful back , and people in my company told me we were not yet able to do that .
so i shifted that , and i made this other film about the big ship , the underway .
i sold this as a movie studio , &quot; romeo and juliet on a ship . &quot; it became a love movie , a passionate movie .
but secretly , i was actually going to go down to the real wreck of the titanic .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know that .
i convinced them , though , by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
this is incredibly important . it &apos;s a good vendor for marketing . &quot;
and i talked to her to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but this goes back to the fact that your imagination can make a reality .
we actually then , six months later , created a reality in which i found myself in a russian submersible , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bulleye .
this was not a film , no hd , this was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
and the preparation for that was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much these deep sea gears resembled a space mission .
well , they were also highly technically and they were allowed to have a broader planning .
you go up into that capsule , you float down into this dark , hostile environment where there &apos;s no hope for rescue if you don &apos;t recreate it yourself .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , this is exactly as if i was in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was obsessed with studying the deep sea .
anyway , the part that had to do with curiosity and science was everything . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature for which we could then create a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i was going to see outside the window .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things i &apos;d never seen before , sometimes things that had never seen before , and for the science at the time that we saw them , they hadn &apos;t found any words .
so this really upset me , and i wanted to do more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision then .
after the success of the titanic , i said to myself , &quot; okay , i want to put my primary job as a filmmaker on hollywood ice and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started diving into the bismarck , and we studied them with robotic witnesses .
we returned to the titanic wreck .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped up a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship that had never been done before .
nobody had ever explored the inside of the wreck . they had no tools for it . so we developed the technology necessary .
and i &apos;m sitting there now on the deck of the titanic in a submersible , and i &apos;m planning to see , you know , they &apos;re kind of similar to these brakes , and i know that once the band has played there .
and i fly through the aisles with a little robotic stuff .
i actually only serve it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically involved in the titanic shipping wreck .
this was the most surreal form of a déjlike vu i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i ever got around a corner of bog , i always knew what would appear in the light cone of the vehicle , because i walked through the movie set for months when we made the film .
because the set was an accurate copy of the ship &apos;s blueprints .
so that was a highly strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use such robotic avatars and so your consciousness in the vehicle can put into this other form of existence .
it was really profound .
and maybe also , a little bit of a glimpse of what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg &apos;s body to explore or do other things , in all sorts of post-humane futures that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we started really appreciating what we saw down there , for example , these deep sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , and these are sort of alien but these are on earth .
they live with chemosynthesis help .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , as we do .
and this is how you see animals right next to 500 degrees celsius that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was again the science fiction influence from my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who are involved in nasa and are struggling with nasa and are planning real space missions . they &apos;re going to go to russia , they &apos;re going through the mission of the biomedical protocol , all the way around , and off , fly to the international space station , and they &apos;re going to take our 3d camera system .
that was fascinating .
but in the end , it was the point that i took space scientists to the deep sea with us .
i took them with sheep , and i gave them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments , and so on .
now we did documentary films , but actually science , specifically : space science .
so the circle between my existence decided to be a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation to reality .
in the course of that voyage of discovery , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i certainly think now you can also lead a director , be a leader like a ship captain or something .
i didn &apos;t understand a lot of leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at some point , i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what &apos;s going on ? &quot;
these silly movies don &apos;t bring us money .
we &apos;re playing the production costs right now , by ruhm , not a trace .
everybody thinks i &apos;d gone away from titanic to avatar , and i &apos;d run away the nails on a towel on a beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentary films , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
you will do it for the task , for the will -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that exists . you do it for the discovery of space , and because of the strange connection that comes from a small group of people forming a team .
because we did all of this with just 10 to 12 people who worked uninterrupted for years , sometimes we were two to three months in a row .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the attention you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task you can &apos;t explain to you any other .
when you come back to land and you say , &quot; we just didn &apos;t have to do it , the fiberglass , the shit , and the whole technology around it , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you work on sea , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain the other one . it &apos;s like police officers or soldiers who have done something together and you know they can never explain it to anybody .
that &apos;s where a connection comes from , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next movie , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership , which is that you respect your team and you earn respect in the opposite of that respect .
so the dynamic was really changed .
so there i was with a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half year period .
so my way of making films completely changed .
there were people who thought we had really taken these oceans and transported them on the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a principle way to do my job , the actual process that changed in the outcome .
so what can we do from all of this ?
what are the lessons we learned ?
i think the first thing is curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human trait .
our imagination is a force that can actually create a reality .
and your team &apos;s attention is more important than any loritarian in the world .
to me , young filmmakers come to me who say , &quot; give me a advice about how i can do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t impose yourself .
the other one gets you . don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t do it to yourself . take risks on yourself . &quot;
nasa has one of these favorite words : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in studying , failure has to be an alternative , because that &apos;s where it guarantees a trust shot .
no important endeavor that innovation required has ever been accepted without risk .
you have to be willing to take these risks .
that &apos;s the idea i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m going to talk to you about energy and climate .
and this may be surprising , because my full-time work at the foundation is all about vaccines and seeds , about the things we have to invent and deliver to the poorest two billion to make a better life .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone else on the planet .
climate degradation means that their crops will not grow for many years , we will rain too much or too little . things will change the way their fragile environment cannot change .
this leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to riots .
so , climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , for them , the energy cycle is very important .
in fact , if you could only reduce price from one thing , poverty reduction would be energy at far the most effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , progress society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case of electricity , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , climate conditioners , we can create modern materials and do so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price down -- we &apos;ll hit a new barrier , and that barrier will depend on co2 .
co2 heats the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually quite clear .
they add the out-of-the-box co2 that leads to temperature increases , and that temperature increases has some very negative consequences , effects on the weather , and perhaps worse , the indirect consequence that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes , and therefore whole systems collapse .
well , the exact relationship between a co2 rise and the result of that is that there are a few ambiguous things , but there are not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to close zero ?
isn &apos;t it enough half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is : until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to increase .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a three-foot truck that has to come from under a three-foot bridge , and then you can squeeze that from underneath .
this has to be down to zero .
well , we &apos;re emitting a lot of carbon dioxide every year over 26 billion tons .
every american , about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow we have to create changes that reduce that to zero .
it &apos;s gone up constant .
just different economic changes have affected it at all , and we have to go up and down from the increase to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 , which you want to get to zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of services every human being uses on average , the average energy for every service and co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at every factor and think about how we get that to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s heading towards nine billion . it &apos;s moving to nine billion .
if we were to very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we could probably reduce 10 percent to 15 percent , but right now we &apos;re seeing a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , television , heating .
that &apos;s very good things , and poverty reduction is about making these services available to almost everybody on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number goes up .
in the rich world , in the top billion , we might be able to eliminate and use less , but on average , that number will go up every year , and so the total number of services will double , the number of services that are provided per person .
here we see a very basic service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street .
well , with effectiveness , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of different outcomes in the light sector , through different autotypes , through new ways of building buildings , there are many services where some of the power services are reduced by 90 percent .
in other services , like fertilizer production , 105 : 05 : 05 : 05 : 05 : 05 : 58,000 or air traffic or air traffic , the space for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , maybe we &apos;ll get a reduction by a factor three or maybe even by a factor six .
but the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to perhaps the very best 13 billion tons . and that &apos;s just not enough !
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this is going to be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 emitted per unit of energy .
it &apos;s a question of , can you get this to zero ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every electricity manufacturing method today emitts co2 , except renewables and nuclear power .
so , what we need to do at a global level is create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; wonder , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and service is a miracle .
people here contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
there &apos;s usually no deadline that you need a miracle to have a particular date .
usually you &apos;re just wrong , and some of them come , some of them don &apos;t .
in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in very short order .
well , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks people &apos;s imaginations here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitoes , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible to them , you know , there are people who live with mosquitoes .
this is what i came up with for energy .
i decided that we would release fireflies my this year contribution to the environment here .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was told they &apos;re not biting . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
well , there are all kinds of playful solutions like this , but they all don &apos;t bring much .
we need solutions , either one or more , that have an incredible scaling and unthinkable reliability , and even though there are many directions that people are looking for , i &apos;m only seeing five that can really afford these big demands .
i &apos;ve left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
they may do a modern contribution , and if they did better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five of them , and we can &apos;t give them up because they shine us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , either burning coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 coming out of the chimney after burning , under pressure , and then storage somewhere , and hope it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this on a 60 percent level -- 80 percent level , but getting it to 100 percent will be very difficult . and getting a deal to gain co2 is a big challenge . but the biggest problem here is the laureate timeline question .
who &apos;s going to make it safe ?
who can guarantee something that literally billions of times larger than any kind of garbage you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
so this is a tough nut .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulated countries , is high . the question of security is that you can really feel that nothing can go wrong despite human participation , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that you might have to solve , and that &apos;s why you should work on .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s renewables , as they often call them .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great , they don &apos;t need fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one , the energy density that these technologies are generating is dramatically lower than the power plants .
these are energy farms , you talk about many square kilometers , a thousand times more land than a normal power station .
and these sources also underlie disruptions .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t shine every day , and the wind doesn &apos;t always fall .
so if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big prices here . there are challenges in transmission , for example , when we say that the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you also need to deal with the risk of where the energy comes from .
and there &apos;s the problems of storage .
and to show you the dimension , i looked at all kinds of batteries that are made : the cars , computers , flashlights , for everything . and i compared that to the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , i found that all the batteries that we now produce could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a major breakthrough here , something that will be 100 better than the approaches at the moment .
that &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to bring these interrupted sources about saying 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
if you want to support yourself by 100 percent , you need an incredible magic battery .
well , where are we going to go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on it . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many of you will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are many people here at the ted group who are already involved in this .
bill gross has several companies , among other things , one called esolar has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla is investing in dozens of companies doing great things and having interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i fund a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
there are some innovations in the nuclear sector ; modular , liquid .
the development in this industry stopped a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts lie around .
the terrapower-concept means that instead of having a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , which is u238 .
that &apos;s a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , they &apos;d been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never reason to simulate whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes ! with the right kind of materialistic approach , it looks like it &apos;s going to work .
and because you burn these 99 percent , that &apos;s much better at cost .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can even use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a propulsion .
instead of breaking your head , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see it &apos;s a kind of pillar , often called a &quot; traveling wave reactor . &quot;
this really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you have the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called the utility uranium .
this is what the u.s. for hundreds of years is doing .
and if you make ocean water cheap and easy to film , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s lifetime .
you know , there are many challenges left , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we need to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be created in the poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully wal-threats and cement will be clean to that point .
so to reach those 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reorder its electricity generation .
the other note is whether we use zero emissions in technology , whether it &apos;s used in all the developed world , and we &apos;re on our way to get it to the rest .
that &apos;s terribly important .
this becomes a key element of this testimony .
if we go back from there , what would that look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the effectiveness measures to get reductions along the way . the less we emitt , the lower the carbon will be , and therefore the temperature will be .
but in fact , this note of the things we do that don &apos;t lead to fully the big reductions , just the same , or even less important , than the others that show the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
we need to track these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure that in corporations , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are a lot of great books on this subject .
the al gore book , &quot; we have the choice , &quot; and david mckays , &quot; sustainable energy class , the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it and create a framework where this can be discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there &apos;s some stuff that has to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we &apos;ll invent this technology .
if you allow me just one wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that wish , or i could choose that wish , which is , halfway energy flow without co2 , i could take that wish .
this one has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get this wish , the dug will get between the long term and the short-term thinking people terrible between the u.s. and china , between poor and rich , and almost all of the two billion will be much worse .
so what do we need to do ?
what are the measures i &apos;m calling for ?
we need to stand up for more research .
if countries meet in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should talk about this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculously low money that &apos;s spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market taxes , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the news .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s a very important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the magnitude of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists what we &apos;ve done , we just need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 100 million .
the hard step is building the first reactor to find more billion , the regularias and the place that actually builds the first one .
once the first one is done , when it gets done like promising , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density is so different from nuclear energy as we know it .
to understand that , that means building deep into the ground , almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , that used uranium , and then the process starts working down and continued to work down ?
bg : right . now you have to refill the reactor all the time , so there are a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong , this thing where you open it up and get things out -- or out of it . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it in for 60 years -- think of a column -- that they bury without all the complexities .
and it &apos;s sitting there burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
a nuclear reactor , which gives itself a solution to the waste .
bg : yeah . well , what happens to the waste : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less waste with this method -- then you take it and you put it into the next reactor and you &apos;ll burn it .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists , that &apos;s inside these refrigerators or dry containers with the reactors . this is our starting fuel .
so what these reactors were a problem is what we fill in our fills , and that &apos;s what dramatically reduces garbage in the process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the greatest interest in doing this really ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet set ourselves on a place , and there are a lot of interesting openness rules for everything called the nuclear . there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china , and i &apos;ve met the energy eminent , and i &apos;ve talked about how this fits to the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese have done something in the direction .
this is a variant of one thing that was done .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so anyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first one .
in your mind , do you actually put in perspective and probability of something like this ?
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , electricity things that &apos;s very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to use .
this is kind of the deadline that the environmental models have shown us that we need to stop .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , it could easily hold that .
and fortunately , today , there are dozens of companies , and we need hundreds of them that , just as their approaches work , can provide promotion for their pilots .
and it would be best if there were several , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
so , given the great potential breakthroughs , this is the biggest thing you know ?
bg : a breakthrough of energy is the most important .
that would have been without the environmental challenge , but it makes it so much more important .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor guy who seems a little bit difficult , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different , but the nice thing about this is that a uranium molecule has a million times the amount of energy it has on its land and say , a coal molecule , and so if you can deal with the problems , and these are the main radiation , the footprint and the cost , is the potential , so the effects on the land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , what does it work ?
do we need to introduce emergency measures to try and keep the earth &apos;s temperature stable ?
bg : when you come into this situation , it &apos;s like you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re standing just before a heart attack . what do you do ? you need maybe a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research facility called geoengineering , which is about various techniques to delay warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to run together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work on insurance at all because you might be doing it , so you eat on food , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , when you think about the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s a discourse in geoengineering about whether to have this at hand if things come faster , or this innovation takes longer than we expect .
climakeptics : do you have one or two sentences for those to convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific argument are very little .
do you say there are negative impacts that have to do with the clouds that move things around ?
there are very , very few things you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is something like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay for it much later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something you just have later -- and this is not so clear to invest . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who are looking at ipcc and saying , okay , this is not a big drama .
the fact is that this uncertainty should worry about us .
but my dream here is that if you can make it economic , and at the same time you can eliminate the co2 , the skeptics also say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it emitting co2 , i wish it was almost that it was done , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the bjurn lomborg argument that if you use all that time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other targets that suffer poverty reduction , malaria reduction and so on , that there &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on the research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion more per year than they do today -- that &apos;s not that dramatic .
among them shouldn &apos;t suffer other things .
you get too much money , and here you can disagree with reasonable people , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you &apos;re trying to finance that . for me , most of the waste is happening here .
unless you &apos;re very short before a breakthrough , and you &apos;re only funding the learning curve , i think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the waste you get is a very high energy cycle , only the rich can keep up .
i mean , any of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing their lifestyle .
for the bottom two billion , but it &apos;s a disaster .
and even lomborg is thinking around .
his new stomach is now : &quot; why no longer is research being talked ? &quot;
he &apos;s still going to , because of his earlier stories associated with the skepticist camp , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so he &apos;s going to make the research argument .
and this is a thought process that i think is appropriate .
research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m talking for almost all the people here , when i say , i really hope your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman introduced a design competition called the marshmallow challenge .
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the large-scale free-standing structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter tape , about 1-foot thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow must be on top .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design shop .
it was a huge success .
since i &apos;ve been doing about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50-company , and there &apos;s something about this kind of task that allows deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share with you some of them .
most people usually start to orient themselves in terms of the task .
you talk about it , you think about what it &apos;s going to look like , you &apos;re running around power .
then you spend a little bit of time in planning and organization , sketching and putting spaghetti out .
they spend most of their time in assembling continually growing structures .
and finally , just before you have time , somebody takes the marshmallow and you put it gently on the top , you step back and you say , &quot; ta-da ! &quot; you admire your work .
but then , almost always , what happens is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh-oh &quot; because the weight of the marshmallov causes the whole thing to bend and collapse .
there are a number of people who have much more uh-oh moments than others , and the worst of all are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , and they produce really droughts .
and of course , there are teams who have much more ta-da shapes , and among the best are fresh allies of kindergarten .
and this is pretty amazing .
as peter told us , not only did they produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is , how does that happen ? why ? what about them ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fighting .
there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students have been trained to find the right plan , ok ?
and then realizing him .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what kindergarten kids do differently is they start with the marshmallow and build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have a multi-fold opportunity to fix bloody prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every attempt , the kids get immediate feedback about what works and what doesn &apos;t work .
so the performance of working with prototypes is a lot -- but let &apos;s see how different teams act .
most of them are about 500 inches , bwl students are creating half of them , lawyers are a little more , but not much , kindergarten kids are better than the adults .
who is the most successful one ?
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one m is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-replicating geometric patterns are the key to build stable structures .
ceos are a little bit above average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team is going to win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is that happening ?
because they have special skills of processing .
you run the process , you understand it .
and that team that rules and looks at the work will significantly improve the performance of the team .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that typically do happen , you get about six who have stable structures .
now i tried something exciting .
i thought we &apos;d bring the poker &apos;s use in a moment .
so i offered a $ 10,000 prize in software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not one team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a two-inch construction , they would have worn the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
we repeated that exercise with the same students .
now , what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of prototyping .
so from the same bad team , one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would somebody actually invest time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual imagery .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
the challenge is to have a shared experience , a common language , or basic , to build the right prototype .
and that &apos;s the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested in it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see the marshmallows being built .
there &apos;s a step-by-step manual there .
you find crazy examples from all over the world how people optimize and refine the system .
there are also world record .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a commitment sport .
it requires that we all do our senses on the task and that we use our thinking optimal , like our emotions and our actions , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a small prototype of this experience is everything it takes to take us from a uh-oh to a ta-da moment .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
we pretend we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and this is a time machine .
and everybody in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what they would choose because i &apos;ve asked my friends a lot of questions recently , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to time before there was cars or twitter or america was looking for the superstar .
i don &apos;t know .
i believe that somehow you &apos;ve moved to nostalgia to wonder .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because possibilities on this planet are not going back , they &apos;re going forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time on the planet , no matter what scale they &apos;re doing : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease rates .
there was never a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed that number to 70 .
my parents are in the heel 80 .
so there should be a nine in the beginning of my death .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born today in new delhi can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . this is an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox has killed billions of people on the planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war ever made .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we forced them . phew .
there are diseases in the rich world that millions of us have threatened only one generation ago , barely yet .
diphtery , roteln , child paralysis ...
does anybody remember what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , are the successes of the scientific method .
and from my point of view , the scientific method of trying things out is to see if it works , changing it if it doesn &apos;t , is it one of the greatest achievements in humanity ?
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , this is all good news , because there are a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that despite all of our achievements , one billion people in the world go to bed every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we used our imagination to devail this world thoroughly .
drinking water , urgent land , rainforests , oil , gas : they &apos;re disappearing , and if we don &apos;t innovate from this chaos , we &apos;re also disappearing .
so the question is , can we do that ? i think so .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the country that they live on .
i think we can power this world that doesn &apos;t destroy it at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , this is not a wonder .
but this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night -- we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as it is now , never .
and we &apos;ve also never been able to use it reasonably , as we can do today .
we &apos;re astounding , amazing events in many areas . and yet i really think that we have to go back hundreds and 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we fought progress , where we &apos;ve driven over these things to be more front-sized than we are now .
people wrap up in their faith , so tightly that you can &apos;t free them .
it &apos;s not even the truth that will set it free .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to their opinion for progress .
but you know what they &apos;re wrong with ?
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; &quot; sorry , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccinations for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to bump into resistance towards what is ultimately the most effective thing in human health care .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did whatever i always do , i wrote an article , and i kept driving .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetic engineering .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought this was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were going to move around in a certain way rather than a random way , a handle on the field of nature .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i went on .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type in , we rich in , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and finally i found out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics , who were nuts , were not fanatics at all .
these were careful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that &apos;s what got me wrong ...
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we got to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
we talk about it twin .
we &apos;re talking ironic about it , with little signs of it , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we have faith in institutions , in authority , and sometimes lost in science , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
you can just call some names and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask them the evidence , demand them .
take nothing for granted .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you have evidence , you have to adopt this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at that .
and i can say that for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen them , and hopefully never will see again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that connected the autism epidemic to masses , mumps , and roteln vaccine .
very scary .
studies were done in a way to see if that was true .
it turns out that studies should be done ; this is a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no one .
it doesn &apos;t matter . it doesn &apos;t matter , because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we believe , what we believe , is that we feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government official who gives us data , and i understand that , i think , we all do .
but you know what ?
the result was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of that fact , the united states is one of the only countries in the world where vaccines are falling for masses .
that &apos;s scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do that .
because does anybody here have masses ?
has one in the audience ever seen anyone die of masses ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
it &apos;s not happening in this country at all , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
this is a lot of deaths through masses , 20 hours per hour .
but because this didn &apos;t happen here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy from platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and you can do that because you don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem the same , but almost never the same .
and this is something we need to learn , very quickly .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of the worst spirits in humanity .
no fear , no source , no child paralysis , no puff , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a few other people .
he can save the lives of 400- , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , this is good , except for paul walking around talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and people should just stop biting .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public listening , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
if you keep on going , the diseases go back , terrible diseases , and this is happening .
we have masses in this country now .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon children will die again , because that &apos;s just a matter of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commander of mine wrote me a few weeks ago , and she said i &apos;m a little bit of a shrill .
nobody has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
why ? because we don &apos;t have children &apos;s paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe this morning somebody in lagos got on an airplane , and they &apos;re flying to los angeles right now , they &apos;re over ohio .
and in a few hours , he ends up renting a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these amazing ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you all take your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidanism that helps you jump .
i know they did it because half the americans do it every day .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cures , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find they &apos;re useless .
the data shows this all the time .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you &apos;d like to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i &apos;ll agree with you all .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate too much government . we have no trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t do that either . our healthcare system is mies .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely amazing cold and soulful to ourselves , who can afford it .
so we &apos;re going away from that , and where are we going ?
we &apos;re going into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because the stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , acai , i don &apos;t even know what this is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what cares ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s what you feel like . &quot;
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because i don &apos;t care if it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; well , i &apos;m not going to adopt the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or any cancer switchman who wants to treat his patients with caffe-type .
if you rely on that path where belief and magic replace and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beds , bone blouts and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can slow down the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in one country that &apos;s placed worse than any other disease .
please don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the proponents of genetically engineered foods and the organic elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice of rice , every branch of petersily , every rosecop , was changed by the people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melon .
there were no christmas trees . we did all of this .
we &apos;ve done it over the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t work .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can do it more closely , and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people to extend their lives .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is : too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want a huge field of one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent life .
we don &apos;t want companies to own seeds .
and do you know what my answer to all of this is ?
yeah , you &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
this has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
they know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do its work because we &apos;re afraid we &apos;re a real dead end , and it holds millions of people flourishing .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than we are right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
shame . shameful .
they need that , and we don &apos;t give them that .
and why ? genetically modified food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotted stuff , like manifestations .
maniox is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all this stuff in it right now .
and then people could eat this , and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be nice .
and all i can say about that is , why do we fight that ?
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to push genes around ?
it &apos;s not about shooting genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence on larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we keep doing that , we &apos;re guilty of something we don &apos;t think we want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really need to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and into the future ? &quot;
anyway , i definitely want that .
it &apos;s in the present right now , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to go , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to go .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we get into the time machine , and we &apos;re going to go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know we can do it , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , this is something the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for some time , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in this , unless they look at it the way i do , &quot; a deception that becomes real if somebody believes hard enough of it . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , because the person thinks what &apos;s happening to them is that it &apos;s a pharmaceutical or a kind of ... in pain management , for example , if the patient believes solid enough , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
a deception becomes something real because somebody perceives it that way .
so in order for us to understand each other , i want to show you a very basic , simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works , and this is a trick that &apos;s in every magic book for kids since the 1950s .
i myself learned it from the cub scout of magic find in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;m going to explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife you can study , my hand you can study .
i &apos;m just going to hold the knife like this in my axe .
i push my sleeve back .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to put my wrist together right here .
this is how you can see that no anything is moving at any time , and as long as i say here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out of my sleeve .
and the goal here is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully if everything goes well , the knife is held through my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually sitting so stuck in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing moves into my sleeve or comes out , not trickiness , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick i often teach to young kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception if you look more closely , even though it &apos;s a very easy trick to do .
probably many of you in this room know this trick .
this is how it works .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i surround my wrist to make sure that nothing will disappear or come out of my sleeve , and this is a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because there &apos;s the real secret to illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from them , so you can see them moving from behind , this finger here , my index finger , just from where it was , into a position where it was so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody sitting in the back who had no childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t notice that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way he processes information , it counts not one , two , three , but it sees it as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not what this is all about now , and then i open my hand .
of course , it &apos;s held there , but not through the magnetism of my body , but through a trick , through my time-fingers , which is there now .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back is hidden through this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and that &apos;s why it was an amazing thing for me .
because it turns out that when you offer placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirintablet , it &apos;s just a round of white pill that has a particular measurable effect .
but if you give the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you make a letter to it , it &apos;s actually measurably more effective .
and this , although none of them are a pharmaceutical -- it &apos;s just sugar pills .
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really freaked me out .
but it turns out that this is not all .
when you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of any shape .
a colored capsule that &apos;s on one end yellow and on the other red is better than a white capsule .
the dosage also matters .
one pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics now . sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach out to the needle .
right ? a syringe with an effective one -- a few milliliters of an effective substance injected to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in your head . this is much stronger than a white pill .
this chart is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time when we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill , which doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief in it that creates a stronger effect in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception and i make it look real .
we know from this study that you have to reach out to the needle when it comes to the point .
this is a five-inch hut . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not steam &apos;s special cultured meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin and push through it until it &apos;s erased again on the other side .
if you get evil -- if you fall slightly into your ancestral -- i &apos;ve done this in the hotel room last night and some of the people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost memorable .
so i propose , if you &apos;re fast , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first hot part in the back here .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also see it away if you want it .
so , it goes like this , right here where my meat starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little sticky .
i &apos;m really sorry . does this crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and through my other side , it &apos;s like this again .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had on the knife trick .
about it .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that , i know what they think .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s probably not that stupid and it &apos;s going to penetrate itself , just to talk for a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t see this right . &quot;
people in the side rooms are now coming in .
let me show you from near it .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my meat , and i can turn this around .
sorry . if you get evil , look away , don &apos;t look away .
the people in the back , or the people who see this later on , will say , &quot; well , this looks pretty impressive , but if it were real , he would -- look , here &apos;s a hole , and there , if it were really real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yes , here it is .
i would usually take the needle out now .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
but i think in this frame here and with the intention of making something real out of deception , i &apos;m just going to let the needle in there and go from the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll enjoy that . thank you very much .
everybody &apos;s talking today about happiness .
i &apos;ve let some people count the number of books that were published with happiness in the last five years , and they &apos;ve spent about 40 years , and there &apos;s a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flood of work , there are several cognitive traits that make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is going to be mostly about these cognitive failures .
this is true of layman thinking about your own happiness , and it &apos;s true of scientists thinking about happiness , because it turns out we &apos;re just as mess as anyone else .
the first of these falls is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out the word happiness is just not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could confine it to , but by and large , this is something we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take on the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a change in experience and memory : it &apos;s basically between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the concentration illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures , who had a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he heard a symphony , and it was absolutely glorious music , and at the very end of the recording there was a terrible circulating sound .
and then he added in , really quite emotional , and that ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t .
what it ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he &apos;d had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was left with a memory , the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two types of self .
there &apos;s a living self that lives in the present , and the present is able to experience the past , but it &apos;s basically just the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor primes -- you know , when the doctor asks , &quot; does it hurt now when i fiber you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a memory of self , and the memory itself is the one that counts and receives the story of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor responds to by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel recently ? &quot;
or , &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the memorizing self , and confusing the two is part of the very different of the sense of happiness .
well , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and this really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we don &apos;t just tell stories when we make ourselves telling stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let them start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . she &apos;s no longer painful today , but she was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
they were asked to report every 60 seconds about their pain .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who here has suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his reflection was longer , and every minute of pain the patient a had patient b and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse reminder of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is this clear ...
but one of them is far worse than the other .
and the one that was worse was where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and also much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing going on ? &quot;
and it was much worse for a than b to remember .
well , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
from the point of view of the living self , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually expand the patient &apos;s reflection by just letting the tube in there without shaking too much on it .
this is going to lead the patient to suffer , but only a little bit less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve caused the living self to be worse off by a patient , and you &apos;ve caused the memory of the patient to be much better off from the patient a , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a a better story about your experience .
what &apos;s a story through ?
and this is true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
what a story is characterized by outbreaks , meaningful moments and ends .
end is very , very important , and in this case , it dominated the end .
well , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one by one .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological present is true of about three seconds , which means , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a month . in a month , there are about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory of yourself .
and yet , you get the sense that you should count , that what happened during that moments of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource we consume while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we would use it seems to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory of ourselves .
so we have the memory itself and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is the treatment of time .
from the point of view of the living self , if you have a vacation and the second week is just as good as the first week , then the second vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works at all for the memory itself .
for the memory of itself , a two-week vacation is hardly better than the weekly vacation , because there are no new memories to be added .
they haven &apos;t changed the story .
and this is actually how time is the critical variable that distinguishes a memory of self from a heritage living self , and time affects this story very little .
now , memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who had , say , two gut reflections in two different surgeons and decides which one to vote , then the one who chooses the memory is less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be selected .
the living self has no voice in that choice .
we don &apos;t actually choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think about our future as an experience .
we think about our future as a foreseeable memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of memory itself , and you can think of the memory of yourself as one that kind of draws the living self through experiences that don &apos;t need the living self .
i have the impression that when we do vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which means we tend to make vacation in the service of memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we consume of our memories ?
that &apos;s one of the explanations that &apos;s been given to the dominance of memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;d ever had , and i think quite often about how often i think of other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably gone from my memories to this three-week journey , i would say for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , this is three weeks , and this is at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
well , i may be a little extreme , you know , how little appetite do i have on the toes of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the course of the weight that we give experiences ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of vacation , all of your images are devastated , and you get an amnesiac drug so you won &apos;t remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
and if you picked another vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about time , in terms of memories , you might get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we choose with a choice between the two species of self .
well , the two types of self throw two terms of happiness up .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can use , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and by the way , we &apos;re able to get a pretty good idea about the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the happiness of the memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
this is not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or delighted the person is when they think about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t tell these terms will screw up the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m one of the many researchers about well-being that have screwed the exploration of happiness in this very same way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the happiness of the memory itself has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and what their experiences are , and there are other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two species of self .
and the main lesson we &apos;ve learned , i think , is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with your life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach you much about how happy he lives his life and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
what that means is that if you met somebody , and you were to tell them , oh , your father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about your size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
when i tell you that somebody put their life as eight on a scale of 10 , they have put a lot of uncertainty on how happy they are with their own living selves .
so the correlation is small .
we know something about what the happiness of the happiness itself determines .
we know money is very important , targets are very important .
we know that happiness is mostly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two species of self , you &apos;ll end up doing very different things .
the conclusion from what i &apos;ve been saying here is that we really shouldn &apos;t imagine happiness as a replacement of well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
well , very briefly , another reason we can &apos;t clearly think about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people are in california , you &apos;re not going to get the correct answer .
when you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier when they say , &quot; ohio . &quot;
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in the climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the memorial self to decide how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up going to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to pursue what happens to people who move to california in hopes to get happier .
well , your living self will not get happier .
we know that .
but one thing that &apos;s going to happen . you &apos;re going to think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;re reminded of how awful the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;re going to feel you &apos;ve made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we spoke to me a few weeks ago about the phone , they told me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup poll .
is this something you can participate in , because you have a few minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result we found in the gallup survey is a number we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
we found this in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we look at how feelings with the income vary .
and it turns out that under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and this is a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under a 600,000 dollars a year income .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they become increasingly less happy as they get poorer .
we get an absolutely flat line about that .
i mean , i rarely saw that flat line .
what happens is obvious that money doesn &apos;t raise an experience happiness , but that lack of money certainly sucks you miserable , and we can measure this misery very , very clearly .
in the spirit of the other self , of memory itself , you get a different story .
the more money you make , the happier you are .
that &apos;s not for emotions .
but danny , the whole american aspiration is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people took this evidence seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything upside down , anything we think , like in tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , in general , would take a fund like the seriousness and make politics based on it ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition of the role of the happiness research in politics .
recognition will be slow in the united states , no question , but in the u.k. it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are acknowledging that they should think of happiness when they think about politics .
it will take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to study experience happiness , or whether they want to study life review , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different dependent on how you think and whether you think of the memories themselves , or whether you think of the living self .
this is going to influence politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
this is going to be , i think , in the next decade or two of the national statistics .
now , it seems to me that this is going to be the most interesting political debate , or should at least be the most interesting political debate over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design video games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is in online games .
i have a plan for it . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and great games .
we &apos;re now spending three billion hours a week playing online games .
some of you may think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we urge to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute of the future is just the opposite .
three billion hours a week are not nearly enough to solve the most urgent problems in the world .
in fact , i believe that if we want to survive the next century on the planet , we need to dramatically increase that time .
i calculated that time is 21 billion hours of play per week .
this seems a little bit wakeful first , so i repeat it to make it work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflicts and obesity , i think we need to try to play online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious about it .
why ? this picture quite precisely describes why i think games are so vital to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of photographer phil toledano .
he wanted to capture the feelings in games , so he &apos;s built a camera before the players .
this is one of the classic expressions in playing .
if you &apos;re not a player , maybe some of the nuances in this picture will escape you .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit scared , but also external concentrations , a really hard problem to solve .
if you play , you &apos;ll see some nuances here that are zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism . the eyebrows are a surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of what &apos;s called an epan victory .
oh , you know that . ok . prima . so we have some players here .
one epic victory is a result so overwhelmingly positive that they didn &apos;t know earlier that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when they do it , they &apos;re shocked that they &apos;re actually capable of something like this . this is an epic victory .
this player is standing in front of an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solvers around the world when we tackle the barriers of the next century , the face of those standing against all the odds on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we &apos;re more likely to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , you know ? yes ? ok .
that &apos;s me doing the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad at doing . &quot;
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied why we &apos;re better at games than in real life .
that &apos;s a problem that many players have .
we think in reality , we &apos;re not as good as we are in games .
and i don &apos;t mean just less successful , even though that &apos;s part of it .
we &apos;re getting more in games . i mean , i &apos;m talking about the motivation of doing something significant , inspired to work together .
when we &apos;re in a game world , i think many of us are transformed into our best version at any given time and instant , trying to solve the problem intractable as long as it takes to try it after the failure again .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have those feelings when we play games , in games they just don &apos;t exist .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you couldn &apos;t just do everything ?
how can we transmit these feelings from games into reality ?
so i looked at games like world of warcraft that offer the ideal environment to collaborative problem solving .
and i noticed a couple of things that make the epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get into one of these online games , especially at world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a world-changing mission , and that &apos;s immediately what it is .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly at your current level in play , right ?
so they can do that .
you never get a job you can &apos;t solve .
but always on the edge of their skills , so they have to line up , but there &apos;s no unemployment in world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around twisting . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there are lovely collaborators .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to close your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that in real life , that feeling that if you &apos;re on a fingertips , employees are ready .
also , there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we &apos;re there and what we have to do .
then we get all this positive feedback .
you &apos;ve heard about &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; plus-one strength , &quot; or &quot; plus-one intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback doesn &apos;t exist in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have plus-one talking and plus-one crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory that we prefer to spend all of our time in these worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warfare players have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily bad .
it might sound evil .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors began to go upright .
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend now with games , it makes only sense when you think about the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also appropriate , because it turns out that by using all this time on play , we &apos;re actually changing what we can do as people .
we &apos;re developing to think together , cardiac beings .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
look at this interesting statistic recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university : the average young person in a country today with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online games to the 21st year of life .
so 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact total thing they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the high school graduation -- if you never miss .
so here we have a whole parallel path to learning young people the same way that they &apos;re learning to be a good player , like anything else they &apos;re learning in school .
and some of you may have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying overhead . &quot;
so you know his theory of success , the theory of success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research in cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours with the tedious study of any subject to the 21st year of life , we &apos;re going to master it .
we &apos;re getting as good at doing whatever we do as the most important people in the world .
so , what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master players .
so the big question is , &quot; what are the very players masterically good ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have sort of unprecedented human potential before .
so many people in the world right now , who spend at least an hour a day playing online games .
these are our master players . 500 million people , who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good in whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it .
the game industry develops consos that save energy and work on mobile nets , rather than the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil can play online .
you expect one more billion players in the next decade .
so we have a billion and a half billion players in total .
so i started thinking about what it &apos;s like to master these games in us .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , imagine this as extreme self-motivating .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a barrier , along with the belief that we have a founded hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying , and it &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters in dense social nets .
there &apos;s a lot of interesting research that shows that we people like more after we play with them , even when they beat us evil .
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with somebody .
we trust that somebody spends time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal and we stay with the end of the game .
so playing together allows playing games to grow in ties , trust and each other .
as a result , we &apos;re building stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warfare is playing 22 hours a week , kind of , as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or do nothing .
we know that as human beings , we work optimally when we do hard , meaningful work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right job .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of the awe of missions of planetary prices .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put that in perspective , and you all know wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve assembled more information about world of warcraft on the internet than about any other subject in any other subject in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome . players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that as individuals , they can change the world .
and the only problem is that you think you can change virtual worlds , but not the real world .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is great . he &apos;s looking at why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re not going to be witnessing anything from mass migration into virtual worlds and online games environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me , i design games , i &apos;m a little reluctant .
so he says that actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
you can relate more powerful social ties in games than in real life , and you get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
so , he says it &apos;s currently completely logical that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll agree first , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optical situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that lies back 2,500 years .
there are these ancient cubes out of sheep necessary . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep necessary .
and these were kind of the first of people to develop toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story , the story of how games were invented .
according to herodotus , games of dignity were invented , in the kingdom of lydics during famine .
there was such a famine , supposedly , that the king of lydics decided to come up with a crazy idea .
people suffered . people fought .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game and agreed a national strategy , and in one day you would eat food . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deepened into the cube , because games are so fascinating and surrounded by peaceful , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating on one day and playing the next one .
likewise , i think we &apos;re using games today .
we use games to get out of the real world &apos;s suffering .
we use games to escape everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , all that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
herodotus , after 18 years , didn &apos;t get better at famine , so the king decided to put a final cube game .
they shared the kingdom in two halves .
they played a cube game , and the winners were allowed to break down to an epic adventure .
they left lydics and went looking for a new home , just leaving behind as many people as there were food to survive and looking for the rest for an area where they could thrive .
this sounds crazy , right ?
but recent dna evidence shows that the etrussians who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydics .
so scientists recently came to think that herodotus &apos; crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain what famine might explain .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually saved their people through games by whispering into games for 18 years and then having them come into games and learn so much about playing with each other that they saved all of the civilization .
so , we can do that too .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warfare series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready to play our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to search for a new world , so i &apos;ll take my 21 billion hours of play a week .
we should revenue that half of us spend an hour a day playing games until we &apos;ve solved the real world problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems in the real world ? &quot; and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve spent the last few years trying to do at the institute of the future ?
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , expressed how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want to do is create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then empowering people to get this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you three games i &apos;ve designed to try and get people to epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
the oil scarcity is invented , but we have enough online content so it &apos;s realistic for you , and you actually live your life without oil . so , when you sign up to play , tell us where you live . and then you get news movies in real time that show you how much oil costs , what &apos;s not seen , how much food supplies , how transportation is being affected , whether there are schools closed , whether there are riots , and you have to figure out how you &apos;re designing your real life , if you were true . and we ask you to blog photos , or whether there &apos;s photos .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been testing them over the last three years since .
and i can tell you , it was a changing experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure , and you say , &quot; we &apos;re running out of oil . &quot;
that &apos;s an amazing adventure you go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have the habits that keep them in play .
so for the next world &apos;s game , we set ourselves a bigger , higher target than just oil spill .
we developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute of the future .
the starting point is that a supercomputer computation that people have only 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is called the global extinction system , of course .
the call to players to sign up , we almost designed a &quot; jerry bruckheimer &quot; movie .
you know jerry bruckheimer &apos;s films , where there &apos;s the dream-team . they have the astronauts , the scientists , the ex-beach fling , and only together can they save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , say , everybody &apos;s in the mud team , and it &apos;s our job of creating the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions they could read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3 , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you close the game , you get , from the world bank , the award of social transformation , 2010 .
we work with universities all over sub-saharan africa , and we invite them to learn how to redesign social .
we have a comic book on it . we have a high level for regional understanding , knowledge interconnectedness , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i want you all to invite you to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from being able to imagine your own social enterprises to save the world .
i &apos;ll come to the end .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these amazing players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a huge meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to make tight social nets , urgency optimism and desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we play meaningful games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll play with me like this and play with me .
when i look forward to the next decade , i &apos;m sure of two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let &apos;s start the world-changing games !
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago when i was writing a wired article .
i was always attacking my synonymous dictionary in writing , but i was already done with the work of texting , and i noticed that i &apos;d never beaten up in my life what the word &quot; disabled &quot; really means .
i &apos;m going to read to you the post .
disabled , adjective : &quot; crawled , helpless , useless , destroyed , dead , mutilated , wounded , dedicated , lahm , separated perceived lost , balanced , impotent , bruised , paralyzed , handed , handicapt senil , age weak , drawn from traffic , restored , broken , broken , counted , searched , injured , useless and weak .
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i first had to laugh , it worked so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; train , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk to them anymore , and i had to stop reading and collect myself after this random word tide and the connected emotional shock .
of course , this was a great , old synonymous dictionary , and i was just thinking that the copy must be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy in the early &apos; 80s when i was just starting elementary school , and started building and forming my self-image outside my family environment , even in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
if i were to take this post seriously , i would be born into a world that somebody like me would perceive as a person whose lives are not at all positive , but today i &apos;m celebrated for the odds and the adventures i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called myself the online issue of 2009 , and i expected me to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words that shoot me under near antonym are &quot; pretty &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are present in these words and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , really believed that the foreign language of an escape has a great force because what you say out loud can also manifest itself .
so , what do we actually want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
just calling a human being mindlessly as a child could reach out to constraints them and give them ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open them up doors ?
a human being opening doors for me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delcell .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s an italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t correct . so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just designed for working with kids .
i found the time i spent in that hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to change individual exercises seemingly infinitely with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know this to build my leg muscles , and i hated these bands more than anything else . i hated them . i hated them . i hated them . i hated them .
and imagine if i even negotiated as a five-year-old child with dr. p. , trying to stop these practices naturally unsuccessful .
and one day he saw me in one of my exercises -- these exercises were just tired and worrying -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to tear one day down one of these benches .
and if you do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was , of course , just a simple trick by dr. p. so that i could do the exercises that i didn &apos;t want to make , with the insight that richest five year-old girls in the hospital in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of myself as a strong and powerful and powerful girl formed my self-image , and i could imagine myself as one of nature &apos;s strong , powerful and atlethal people .
this is just one example of how adults in positions of power can prompt the imagination of a child .
but as the targeted examples of the synonymous dictionaries already , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something we would all wish ourselves : to allow anyone to see themselves as powerful people .
our language is behind the social change that has been triggered in many cases by a technological change .
from the medical standpoint , of course , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging , allowing people to really use all of their possibilities and go beyond the limits that their natural destiny has set them to develop , not to speak about social networking platforms , make people define their own identity in their own way , and define themselves in their own way , and guide themselves to groups around the world that are self-centering .
so maybe this technological change is more clear , because the fact that every human being in society can give something very special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people kept asking me to tell me how to deal with odds , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this phrase never fed for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering the questions of people , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this is a set of skills that are happening by the idea that success or happiness depends on embracing a challenge without being coined by the connected experience , as if my life had gone so successful because i could outweigh the possible traces of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
but the truth is that we change . of course , we are shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i say that &apos;s good .
odds are not an obstacle we have to reverse to deal with our lives better .
odds are simply in our lives .
and i tend to think of odds as my shadow .
sometimes i realize it &apos;s very present , sometimes it &apos;s hardly seen , but it &apos;s with me all the time .
and i don &apos;t want to use it at all to degrade the impact , or the severity of a human struggle .
there are odds and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just ubiquitous , and every person is about this in a different way , but the question is not whether we can deal with odds or not , but how we deal with it .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people we love from fatalities , but we also prepare them to make it good .
and we don &apos;t like our kids when we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
you have to clearly separate two things : to be amputated for one thing and to the other , the social opinion about whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and remaining disability i had to deal with is that the world is constantly talking to me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people that we care about and tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical projections , or even to put a forecast on the quality of life that they expect , we have to pay attention that we &apos;re not going to put the baseline for somebody to actually be disabled .
maybe the current concept that &apos;s only looking at what &apos;s in a broken one , and how we fix it , for each individual , is a greater disability than the pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human holistically , and we don &apos;t see and recognize all its forces and all its possibilities , in addition to the natural struggle that you might need to lead , we create another disease .
we degrade a human being that has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond patology and focus on all the domain of human possibilities .
but most importantly , between perception of our inadequacy and our great inventions , there &apos;s a connection .
we should not dismiss or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we return them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about detecting in the opportunities that are going on .
i may be more about making sure that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome odds , but that we &apos;re open to embrace them , put them on the shelf to use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
and maybe we &apos;re able to think of odds as something natural , coherent and useful and so we don &apos;t feel harassed by their presence anymore .
that year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , pointed out something very true about human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the strongest of its species survives , not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one who can best adapt to change .
conflict produces creativity .
not only do we know from darwin &apos;s work that the ability to survive and flourish is determined by the fight of the human mind to change through conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest human abilities .
and maybe we only know what wood we &apos;re from when we &apos;re really being tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly the sense of oddness , a sense of imity , is a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give new meaning to odds beyond severe times .
maybe we can see odds as a change .
odds are a change we haven &apos;t yet adapted to .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve added to ourselves is to believe we should be normal .
honestly , who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal thing .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one , but not the normal one , and would you really want to know this poor gray person if you really existed ?
i think , rather than that .
it would be great if we could share this paradigm of normal thought against another set of possibilities or strength to make it a little bit more dangerous , exchange it a little bit more . so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills to society .
anthropolar have found that we have always asked people of the members of our society to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that neanderthals were carrying older people and heavy physical injuries , and this may be because the life experience was valuable in the survival of these people .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i grew up in a food market in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing in front of a bowl of tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts on it .
and i hear a guy saying behind me , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turned around and i see this older man , and i had no idea who he was .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , we know ourselves ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you might not remember me .
when i first saw her , i pulled her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so he is .
and of course , it did click .
this was dr. kean , a man who i only knew from my mother &apos;s narratives this day , because , of course , i was typical , my birthday was too late for two weeks .
the doctor of prdanatal diagnostics of my mother was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without a waving legs , and my feet had been disgusted after them , and i had just a few toes on this , and a few toes on the other foot , he was the overwhelm , that stranger had to deliver the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents you were never going to walk , and you were never going to be as moving as other kids , or you could never live an independent life , and since then they &apos;ve just punished me . &quot;
what was really extraordinary to me was that he was raising newspaper clips of my whole childhood , whether i &apos;d won them at a letter competition in second grade , whether i &apos;d been traveling to the pads at the parade to hallolance , whether i had my scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he &apos;d been using these clips to teach his students , medical students from hahneman medical school and hey medical school .
and he called that part of his course the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can &apos;t emphasize how important this factor can be for the quality of life of a human being .
and dr. kean kept telling me , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they don &apos;t get something else all the time , and even though they only get a little bit of support for leaving kids with themselves , children can achieve a lot . &quot;
you see , dr. kean changed his thinking .
he had understood that medical diagnosis , and how someone does it , are two different things .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me , at age 15 , whether i had swapped my prostheses against the legs of meat and bones , i wouldn &apos;t have hesitated a second .
i wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not that sure .
and this is what happened because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite that experience .
and maybe that change could happen because i &apos;ve met so many people who &apos;ve opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who have restricted me or overloaded an idea .
you see , it really only needs one person to demonstrate to you how you can manifest your forces , and you &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own inner forces -- the human mind is so rewarding -- if you can do it , and open a door to someone in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open up themselves doors .
the real meaning of the word &quot; performance &quot; is where the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means making something that in one is to tickle the potential .
again , what potential do we want to do now ?
in the &apos; 60s , in the u.k. , a case study was done , and then high school was transformed in total schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
students are divided after grades .
and the a student is checked tirelessly , gets the better teachers and so on .
they then have over a three-month period of time with a &quot; enough &quot; note &quot; given the very good . they were told they were very smart , and after those three months , they really wrote down .
and of course , it breaks your heart to hear that vice versa was told to be only sufficient .
and that &apos;s the same thing after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- apart from the students who had missed school .
the key thing about this study was that the teachers weren &apos;t denied .
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that if they were the one-serving students , they are the students with the grade enough , and they also taught them something and they treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken , has no hope , it finds nothing more beautiful , it lacks our natural , child-friendly curiosity and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we can support the human spirit , continuing to hope for ourselves and other people around us to find themselves beautiful , curious and imaginative , then we enlist our forces in a really positive way .
when a spirit has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new form of existence .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet called hafiz in the 14th century , who told me about my friend jacques dembois , and the poem is , &quot; the god who knows only four words . &quot; &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the publishing , but the god who knows only four words and repeats them all the time , just says , &quot; come with me , dance with me . &quot;
come with me , dance . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose that by few changes in your genes , i said could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or do they want to be fitter , stronger , have more power .
do you want to get more attractive and confident ?
how about living longer in good health ?
or maybe they &apos;re one of those who has always been yearning for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if you could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a few . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
how many would choose to have good memory ?
a few more .
how about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous subject here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you a view of a doctor &apos;s theme .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense but in the light of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your hearing device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is wrong , because nothing else will make sense of you in this talk .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it fun for others or is it affecting us ?
this is another view of the tree of life .
in this picture , i &apos;ve set a bush as a center of despair in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing specialities on the top of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated its environment fitness and strength .
the human part of this book , way to the end , of course , is what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in that period of time , there were maybe 20 or 25 different specialities of hominids .
some people have come and left .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems like we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but actually , for the most part , the fundamental mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can take advantage of it and mimic the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undistinguishable from what comes out of the pancreas .
and when we &apos;re talking about bacteria , do you realize that each of us in our gut are leading more bacteria than it is leading cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to offer them all the nutrients they only want without effort on them .
it &apos;s really a easier way for bacteria to do it , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to outcome .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just like they &apos;re important for their lives .
they help with the digestive of essential nutrients , and they protect them against certain diseases .
but what will come in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary equilibrium in a species ?
or are we going to be different -- something that might be adapted to the environment better ?
now let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang , 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , maybe as much as 800 or a billion years -- and then the human species , which , in the last 130,000 years , eventually , shape .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single stroke ; and human life , a little notebook .
that &apos;s what we were .
this is also the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope you enjoy it .
now , when i was a mere in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i realized something very fundamental : in most of the existence of life in individual organisms , each cell divides , and all of the genetic information of the cell is continued into both daughter cells .
but at that time , when multi-cellular organisms showed up , things started to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction , the genome continues , the rest of the body becomes essential .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our bodies occurs in evolution at the same time that sexual reproduction occurs .
now i have to admit , when i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex per death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at that point , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my increasingly .
i came to understand the feelings of george burns , who did his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knock on his hotel room door .
he opens the door .
in front of him is a beautifully articulate showgirl .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; george says , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization that when i was a doctor , i was working on a goal that was different than the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradicting , just differently .
i tried to keep the body in mind .
i wanted to keep ourselves healthy .
i wanted to restore the health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the passing of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival generation after generation .
from an evolutionary standpoint , you and i evolved like boster rockets to send genetic questions to the next stage of the orbit , to fall to the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen was expressing when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to reach immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean preferring the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest , or the fastest , even the smartest .
evolution accumulates the creatures that adapt best to their environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there , which are thermophil , and in doing so , survive the hot vapor , if fish were there , they would have the vacuum cooked fish , yet they &apos;ve managed to make it a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s happening in evolution and how we think about people &apos;s place in evolution , and especially how we look forward to the next stage , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
we &apos;ve reached some kind of balance .
and the reason for that is that we were first managed by medicine , to get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been selected and had been removed from the population .
and secondly , as a species , we configure our environment to be able to adapt to us precisely and to adapt to them .
and by the way , we hike and circulate and mix so much that you can no longer say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find status .
a second possibility is that it &apos;s going to be an evolution of the traditional species , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here is that the wheels of evolution are starting to grind , but they &apos;re desperate .
and as far as isolation goes , if we colonize distant planets , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that evolution could naturally produce .
but there &apos;s a third way , a tempting , fascinating and terrifying opportunity .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that &apos;s not just natural , but led and decided to the individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
how could it be possible that we do that ?
let &apos;s first look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide .
so think , if not only were it possible to choose your child &apos;s gender , but also to assume genetic adaptations that would cure and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s , or eliminate cancer risk or stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
as we look forward , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
the following year , when it finished in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in it to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about $ 20,000 and in the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take long to get to the reality that there &apos;s going to be 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it &apos;s going to be increasingly available to everybody .
a week ago , at the national academy of engineering , gave the draper prize for francis arnold and willem stemmer , two scientists who developed independently the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in a more efficient way -- what frances called &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was awarded to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research , where he took a grown-up skin , a fibrobox , and by manipulating just four genes , the cell to bring it back to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell potentially is able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that human insulin can produce in bacteria that can make viruses that can &apos;t just protect themselves , but can also serve immunity to other viruses .
whether you believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study that &apos;s been done with vaccines against influenza that &apos;s been grown into the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good coming out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , many more will be possible .
imagine only two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells in your body ?
what if you could change the sperm and the eggs or the newly fertilized egg to give your children a better chance for a healthier life -- elimination of diabetes , remove the hemophilia , remove the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier kids ?
and then analytical technology , the same engine of science that can allow change to prevent disease , could also allow us to adopt , say , super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t we have the skill of a ken jennings , especially if you can expand it to the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow them to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be inconsistent .
and if we &apos;re at a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we will be transformed by alt style to neo-evolution .
we &apos;re going to have a process that usually requires 100,000 years , and we can compress it on a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren have to deal with or your grandchildren .
do we use these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or are we going to selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us , not for others ?
will we form a society of divinity and uniformers , or is it robuster and more diverse ?
these are the kinds of questions we need to be facing .
and the deepest of all , will we ever be able to develop the wisdom and master the wisdom that we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions wise ?
in the good and in the bad , and sooner than you may think , these decisions will be ahead of us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine now something , a wearable robot that gives you transhuman skills , or another that helps wheelchair drivers get up and go back .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re not anything but something that they put in the morning that gives them extra strength and that will increase their velocity and that will help them to balance , for example .
this is actually the real melting of man and machine .
but not only that -- merging and connecting with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldiers on average carried about 100 pounds on his back , and it &apos;s a request for them to wear more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injuries , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal injury .
so we thought we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc now -- or human universal summary carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds above different terrain for many hours .
its flexible design allows you to rise deep , crawl and do highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go , and then increase my strength and persistence .
we &apos;re so far from presenting this device with our industrial partner , this new exoskeleton of this year .
so it &apos;s true .
let &apos;s now take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people who are sitting in a wheelchair in the world .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and this is actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re talking a lot about very young people with spinal cord injury , who were in the flowering seasons of their lives -- 20s , &apos; 30s , &apos; 40s -- were hit by destiny , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , whose number is multiplied .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and by the way , it &apos;s been for 500 years since his , as i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which concluded that it couldn &apos;t walk for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda is carrying our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches , sending signals back to our onboard computer , which is attached to her back here .
here are also batteries , the engine engine is on your hip , as well as on your knee joints you move forward in this very smooth and very natural process .
i was 24 years old , and i was in best form when a monstrous pure tree was paralyzing me as a ski ride .
in a matter of a second , i lost every feeling and movement underneath my desk .
not long after that , a doctor step into my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;re never going to be able to go again . &quot;
and this was 19 years ago .
he steel every five kiss of hope from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me to learn since then , to drive again , to climb again , to ride even with my hands to bike .
but nothing was invented that would let me go again so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet us and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of development in a non-profit organization called robin hood .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a help of a fireman &apos;s headquarters at a volunteer trigger the fire .
well , in our city , where volunteers supported a high-skill professional fire department , you have to be on the brand pretty early to be able to mix with you .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the brand , so i had some pretty good opportunities to be able to go in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the accountable main man and figure out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had just a very serious conversation with the house owner , who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the prisoner and barefoot under a screen outside in the flowing rain while her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who arrived at the scarce before me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- got to the main man , first and was asked to go to the house and save the dog of the house owner .
the dog ! i was linguistic .
there was some lawyer or assets , who could now tell for the rest of his life , that he was in a burning house to save a creature just because he was five seconds faster than me .
well , i was the next one .
the main man turned me on .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you have to go up to the fire past , and this woman has to get a pair of shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i hoped for , but i went up -- the stairs , the hallway , past the &quot; real &quot; firemen who were already pretty finished by the deletion room to get a pair of shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i wore my prey back down where i met my enemy at the front door and the beloved dog .
we wore our estimates outside to the house owner , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
a few weeks later , the fireguard got a letter from the owner , where they thanked the brave use of saving their house .
one about all sorts of valued kindness : somebody had even brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my career at robin hood and my side job as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness at the big scale , but i also see actions in the next love and the mud of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and see people who have either reached remarkable success or are on their way there , i want to offer the following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in somebody else &apos;s life until you get to their first million .
if you have something to give , give it to you now .
use it in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
not every day will we have a chance to save a person &apos;s life , but every day it gives us a chance to change one .
so put it there ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret to human condition .
a place where women lead the prescription , with sex , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not touch man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relationships .
this is the world of wild bonobos in the old-growth forest of congo .
bonobos are with chimpanzees our closest living relatives .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother , who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimps are known for their aggressive .
but unfortunately , we emphasized this aspect in human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
as chimpanzees are led by large , frightening guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they really came out of this , because this leads to an extraordinary tolerant society in which lethal force has not been observed yet .
but unfortunately , bonobos are least known under primates .
they live in the deep congolese urbanium forest , and they &apos;re very much accessible to observation .
congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of the dark itself -- the setting of a violent argument that has been ravaging for decades and almost as many lives as the first world war .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and decline in the tree is that you couldn &apos;t even fill a stadium with the remaining bonobos -- and even we &apos;re not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country from violence and chaos , you can hear a borrowing laugh that shatteres trees .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have frequent sex , also bisexual partners , and rules like this , and so conflict and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that would be the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is more than the cama sutra .
bonobos , like people , love playing their lives .
play is not just child games .
for us and it &apos;s a game that &apos;s fundamental to attach relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
play increases creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about generating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of interactions .
and if you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickling that keeps us together .
well , i don &apos;t know what they &apos;re playing , but i want to show you some unique images right away from the wild .
first of all , a ballball game in bonoboo -- and i don &apos;t think of it as football .
so here &apos;s a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
that could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she &apos;s packing it in the eggs . &quot;
it &apos;s only that i think it likes it , right ?
yeah !
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in people .
and this video is really interesting because it shows -- and this video is really interesting because it shows the ideality of bringing new elements into play -- like the testicles -- and also how the game requires trust and promotes -- while also having tremendous fun .
but the game is a formal transducer .
play is a formal transducer , and it can take a lot of forms that some of which are a little bit quieter , fanciful , curious -- maybe to rediscover the amazing thing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peacefully with water .
i think just as they play , we sometimes play alone , and we explore limitations of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected linking that we form is the real nutrient of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos offend us into our past and present .
but they also maintain a secret to our future , a future where we have to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printing cooperation .
the secret is that the game is key to these skills .
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
to succeed in an inconsistent world , we have to play .
but are we going to do the best we can out of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people equally , life is not made up of teeth and claws alone .
just when it seems hardest , play is perhaps most necessary .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s embrace this gift of evolution and play together while we rediscover the creativity of cameroon and wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two couples , in the mid-1979 , on the very same day , at the very same moment , each one of us is a baby -- okay .
so two couples , each one is a baby .
now i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the creation , because if you imagine the creation all the time , you won &apos;t listen to me .
just imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case the sperm carries a y chomosom hitting the x chromosome of the egg cell .
and in the other case , the sperm has an x chromosome hitting the x chromosome of the egg cell .
they &apos;re survival , both of them are light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
most of my activities , i have two hats on them .
under a hat , i look at the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people with anatomy surrounded -- that is , human body , animal body -- how they surrounded with body fluids , with body concepts , how they thought about bodies .
the other hat i wore at my work is the activist , a patient &apos;s lawyer -- or , as i say sometimes , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i &apos;ve been working with people who &apos;ve been working with body types who are questioning social norms .
so for example , i worked with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with advertisers -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve worked with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who have no average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality occurs in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a few examples of the possible types of sexual variants that don &apos;t correspond to the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have somebody with an xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms makes the protogonlines that we all have to grow up with .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone testosterone testosterone is fetal .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to recognize the testosterone , the body is not responding to testosterone .
and this is called the androgen receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body evolves more to the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it takes most of the time for you to reach puberty and grow your breasts and develop , but you don &apos;t get your period until someone comes to it and there &apos;s something else here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of ovarying and uterus , they actually carry testicles in them , and she has a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as a male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , in our bodies , have what &apos;s called adrenaline glands .
they &apos;re in the back of our bodies .
and the next kidneys make androgens , which are viriering hormones .
most women , the way i do -- i think i &apos;m a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosome structure , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually respond to androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the consequence is that somebody like me actually had a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman born with testicles and had a androgen receptor defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexual lines are not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , they can be spread across the entire range .
another example : a few years ago , i got a 19-year-old man &apos;s call , who was born a boy , had a friend , had sex with his friend , lived as a man , and had just figured out he had ovaries and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side hyper-bubble .
he &apos;s got xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were male , his brain was exposed to the typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and it wasn &apos;t until he turned 19 that he had enough medical problems that actually because he was internally mentioning that the doctors found out he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variation in intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes develop something called ovotesti , which is wrapped in the ovarian tissue of hode tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it were dwarf or siamesian twins , whether it was intersexual -- from surgeons often to the norm is not because this would be for their physical health of advantage .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often do different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomical jump comes in with a particular identity .
so we have the concept that being a woman is called having a female identity , which is to be a black person , supposedly , to have an african anatomy in terms of your own story .
so we have this terribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re confronted with a body that actually represents something very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categories .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas about individualism in our culture .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had seen most excitement recently , the south african runner caster semenya was challenged last year , whose gender was challenged in the body school in berlin .
a lot of journalists called me up with the question , &quot; what will you do , who tells us whether caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there &apos;s no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line for us between male and female , or between male and intersexual and female and intersexual , and interactive , we are , in fact , that this line pretends to be natural .
so we have a situation like this where , as our science continues , we have to admit around us so much that these categories that we had thought of as stable anatomical categories that made very simple assignments to create permanent identity scores are much smarter than we did .
and it &apos;s not just about gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has allowed us to .
the way we think about it is we get into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
we &apos;re going to push , for example , the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna in common with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re only different from a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science forward more and more , we &apos;re getting into a zone of discomfort where we need to acknowledge that the simplistic categories that we probably had are too simple .
we see this in all sorts of different parts of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this for beipiel , in our culture today , in today &apos;s united states , the battles are over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about what part of the body becomes human , so that it has a different right than the fetal life .
we have very difficult conversations today -- perhaps not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone &apos;s dead .
our ancestors used to have never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
they &apos;ve stayed a spring under their nose , and when they move , they haven &apos;t buried them yet .
when it didn &apos;t move , you &apos;ve buried it .
but today we are in a situation where we take people &apos;s vital organs and we want to plant them to other people .
and as a consequence , we start fighting the really difficult question of when someone &apos;s dead , and this brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole thing would collapse from categories like me .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit i &apos;m nervous .
to understand that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought made me excited .
and it makes me excited about how we think about democracy .
so to tell you about that tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of founding fathers .
i know they were racized , i know they were sexest , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and so strong , and so radical , what they did every few years was i went to see the fine musical scarce , and it &apos;s not because of the music that &apos;s completely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 to the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , from my point of view , were the original anatomical activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they proved was an anatomical concept , and they replaced it through another that was radial and beautiful , and 200 years was central to us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on dna , but they had a concept of birth on the right .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they were the notion that people who had political power should have this political power because of the inherited blood line from grandfather to son and so on .
the founding fathers proved this idea back and replaced it through a new anatomical concept , and this concept said that all humans were created equally .
they niveled the playfield , and they decided that anatomically , the similarities count , not the differences . and that was very radical .
now they did that in part because they were part of an enlightening system where two things grew together .
democracy grew in , but at the same time science grew in .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , you realize that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a naturalist world .
they went from explanations of supernatural form and proven things like a supernatural concept of power back where transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they &apos;re not talking about god and the nature of god .
they talk about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomical commonalities .
and they really prepared the civil rights movement in a wonderful way .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who pursued the election right , the concept of founding fathers , which says that anatomical similarity is more important than the anatomical difference , and said , &quot; we have a uterus and ovaries as a difference enough that we should not be right to vote , the right to own right to own , etc . &quot;
and women argued this successfully .
next , the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like instant &apos;s circumstances , spinning on it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching trips of citizenship movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people from different skin color , based on anatomical similarities , from anatomical differences , again , successfully .
we see the same thing with the disabled legal movement .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the similarities , we have to start asking about why we sustain certain divisions .
well , remember , i want to sustain certain separations , anatomically speaking , in our culture .
i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should be taking away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should be the right to give their insights to sex or to get married .
so there are some anatomical separations that make sense to me , and that i think we should keep .
but the challenge is to try and figure out which ones are and why we keep them , and whether they &apos;re meaningful .
so let &apos;s go back to these two beings who have been witnessed at the beginning of the talk .
we &apos;ve had two creatures , both in the mid-1979 , on the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , three months from now , was born , so she was born on june 1 , 1980 .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born the birthday , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months ago , she requires all kinds of rights three months before heinrich -- to have the right to vote , to drink the right .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time point of his birth .
we find other oddities about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you assume it &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you it &apos;s with xy -- because you assume it &apos;s male , it can now be drawn in , which maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , on the other hand , can &apos;t perceive the same thing in all states that heinrich has in all states , which is the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can only maria marry a woman in a few states today .
so we have these permanent anatomical categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is : what are we going to do because our science makes such progress in anatomy , that we &apos;re going to have to reach a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up science , but at the same time it feels like science is self-assembling .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we need to draw a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people are caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas decided at one point that getting married means you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and getting married means you have a chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested on their chromosomes .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story i told you about the androgen receptor defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he gives us a little bit of a solution in his &quot; i have a dream of talking . &quot;
he says we should judge people not &quot; their skin color , &quot; after the quality of their character , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights in such a way that we should , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserves social events rather than some people that i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright labradordogs , the more capable , more intelligent and richer decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how do we operate in the question of the character ?
it turns out it &apos;s really hard .
and part of me is , what if the contents of a personality were something that could be done in the future in machine readable -- using the fmri visible ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems to be really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to think about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done our business really well , and i think we &apos;d do our business in the future .
we don &apos;t have the situation , for example , in iran , where a man who &apos;s sexually drawn to other men is punished by death , unless he &apos;s willing to sign himself a gender transformation in which case he &apos;s allowed to stay alive .
these kinds of states don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m happy to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon i talked to a few years ago who had brought some siamesian twins in order to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i had a telephone with him , and i asked him why he did these interventions -- it was high risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids would be treated very badly , and so he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl rather than an operation to separate it ? &quot;
the united states has incredible opportunities to allow people to be the ones they are without having to change for the state &apos;s will .
so i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to end , i want to notice that i &apos;ve talked a lot about fathers a lot .
and i want to think about the ways that democracy might look , or that it might have looked like if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that a feminist is a radical , and that &apos;s what i think there might be different kinds of insights that govern different kinds of anatomy , especially when people apply a group thinking .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in internality , i &apos;ve also been interested in gender research .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and act in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not each , but on average -- tend to give complex social relationships and the concern for people who are vulnerable within the group to pay a lot of attention .
and so when we think about it , we have an interesting situation to do .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my graduate students asked me , who had an interest in feminism -- i consider myself a feminist , so i do it -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s female about feminism . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , this is the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about resolving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not a female thing .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that means there could be something on average , which is feminine brains from male brains , which makes us more aware of highly complex social relationships , and more aware of the protective needs .
so where the founding fathers were extremely suspicious of finding out how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we put more mothers in this concept , we give them a concept , not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future when we &apos;re doing democracy on anatomy -- think less about the individual body in terms of identity and think more about relationships .
so that if we as a people try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that &apos;s : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love finding a different colorful , crazy outfit at any given time , and photographing and blogging recently .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from second hand in flowing markets and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my guarderobe on the environment and also the impact of my wallet .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars are used for a good cause ; i look pretty unique , and it makes me buy my very personal chatting .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers sound yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i tell you what i packed here at ted for this exciting week .
i mean , what does anybody do with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
i brought seven underpants with me , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for exactly one week are all i did in my suitcase .
i woke up that i would find everything else i might want to wear once i came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me , when the woman who &apos;s walking around at ted in her underwear -- that means i found a couple of things .
and i really want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
as i do that , i &apos;m going to give you some of the lessons i believe it or not , from these adventures , i &apos;m going to tell you not to wear anything new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the radiant tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
you can look great for almost always for less than 50 dollars .
all this outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece i carried all week .
monday : color is something that &apos;s powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be bad at wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of my time in life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , not only will you understand it , but you will appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
sometimes people say to me i look like i dress &apos; games or i remember her seven-year-olds .
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
donnerday : confidence is the key .
if you think you &apos;re looking good at something , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you &apos;re not looking good at something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you for a moment .
if you believe you &apos;re a wonderful person inside and outside , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for anyone in this audience .
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailers fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again when this week people came to me just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , it &apos;s not going to fit in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate this all back .
because the lesson i try to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to arrange these things emotionally , because right around the corner , there &apos;s always going to be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit that &apos;s waiting for me to love if i have a little love in the heart and search for it .
thank you very much .
thank you .
good afternoon , all together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a picture point , as a flying point .
this is what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about it .
now if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this image in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is because of the formula 1 thing that happened in the past few decades .
so , a while ago , if you wanted to win a formula 1 race , you took your budget and put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now today , you need , if you want to win a race , actually , something like this -- something that has the car in real time , some thousand sensors that pass that information on from the car , and then process that information , and then use it to send that car back and change things in real time , while information is collected .
this is what they would call a real-time control system in engineering teams .
and basically , it &apos;s a system made up of two parts -- a feeling part and a reacting arrow .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems begin to appear in our lives .
our cities have been equipped , over the last few years , with networks and electronics .
they become computers in the open .
and as a computer in the free , you start to respond in a different way , you see it and you &apos;re driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population is there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- cause up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big deal .
beyond cities , all of this perceiving and engaging in objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that paola antonelli , for moma , later in the year , organized .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
well , all of our objects , our environment , are starting to speak to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost like every atom out there becomes both of them , a sensor and a driver .
and that radically changes the interaction we have out there with our environment .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , michelangelo shaped moses , meaning he took the end of the hammer and threw it to moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot on the outside -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment is starting for the first time to respond to us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
let &apos;s start to perceive .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it came from four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we did was we actually used a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and use anonymous and aggregated information from this network that was being collected anyway from the operators to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember it was playing italy against france , and then at the end of it , zidane , head shock .
and anyway , italy won at the end of it .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
you can see in the middle the colosseum , the tide .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up at the top .
early afternoon , people here and there , making calls and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , they go to the bathroom .
second half-time . end of the normal play time .
first extension , second extension .
zidane , in a moment of the head shock .
italy wins . yeah .
well that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the winning team and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the space , about co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the exception at the end of the day .
well , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do it a few years ago .
so quickly another example of feeling : this is not about people , this is about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know all about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that make up a mac computer , how they came together .
but we know very little about where things go .
so we actually designed a few little markers in this project to track the garbage as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to tag the things they threw away -- different kinds of things you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , pasted on the garbage , and we started tracking it .
here are the results we just got .
seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data wasn &apos;t available before .
but this is what happens to a lot of unuseful and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we believe that when we see every day that the cup we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear that it &apos;s still on the planet somewhere .
and the plastic bottle we throw away every day remains there .
and if we showed that to people , we can make a behavioral change .
so that &apos;s why this project is happening .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you a lot more about what &apos;s going on and the many other wonderful things you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question from the mayor who came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition of using in public places as part of the architecture .
and the question was , how could you connect technology to this ?
and one of the ideas that was mediated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , work that open and close .
they do this kind of thing as a curtain of water with images of water .
when these dots fall down , you can write on them , you can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach it , and it &apos;s going to open up to let you jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he liked it very much .
and we got the mission to design a building at the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavilion .
the entire building was water .
there are no doors or windows , but when you approach them , it will open up and let them go .
the roof was also covered in water .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can actually let the roof down .
or you could close the building and all the architecture , as in this case , you know , this day , when you drive down the roof , you &apos;ll get images of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here i am trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not to get wet .
now , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but it was actually a lot of fun that night .
all the kids from zaragoza came to the building because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open to let them go , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
and this was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use the things we design .
but the reality is always unpredictable .
and this is the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical images , the points of water and the projections on it .
and this is what got us thinking about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine if these imagery could really start flying .
imagine you could have little helicopters that fly through the air , and each of you with a little bit of a switch point of light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , moving with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
you can have some kind of flexible screen or advert like this -- a uniform formation in two dimensions .
or irregular , but in three dimensions , where what &apos;s changing is light is not where the images are .
they can play with different species .
imagine if before the screen , it could just appear in different formats or sizes in different resolution .
but then it could be just a 3d cloud of images that you can walk through and through that you can move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controlling that goes down to form an equal v like before .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this , so the way we saw it before .
imagine that every single person is being run by us .
it could have a pulse from every single image that comes from people from the movements of man or something like that .
i want to show you something first here .
we worked with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étole at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scala in milan -- we took his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse to the flyfire .
this is roberto dancing .
on the left you see the images , the different prisoners , the different impressions .
it &apos;s also a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so that they can understand the whole movement .
you can do that all the time .
but then once we have all the imagery , you can play with it and play with color movement of gravity and motion .
we want to use that as a possible pulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the london olympics .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine that we refer to people to doing something and changing the environment -- almost like what we call the cloudspotting movement , how to move a shepherd , but with a cloud .
imagine that anyone can give a little donation to a picture point .
i think that the remarkable thing of what &apos;s happened over the last few years is that we &apos;ve changed from a physical to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and it &apos;s making it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign obamas has shown this -- we can change from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something built in the city .
but tomorrow it can take us to face the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we change from the digital world to the physical .
so the idea is that we actually include the people in which they &apos;re doing things together , collectively .
the cloud is a cloud of images again , in the same way that a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical image in london , but it covers images .
they can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from below , divide the most important moments for olympics and beyond , and use it as a form of connection to the community .
so both the physical cloud in the sky and something at the top you can go , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital glow at night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i think the context is very important .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that people are not separate from nature and that everything is connected .
for the first time , i was in antarctica , where i saw my first icebergs , almost 10 years ago .
i was struck by awe .
my heart raced , i was dizzy , trying to write what was in front of me .
the icebergs around me were almost 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
icebergs are born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice sheets .
each iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re clearly interacting with their environment and their experiences .
some people refuse to give up and grab into the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse dramatic passion in a seizure .
when you look at an iceberg , you think easily they &apos;re isolated , separated and alone , just like we humans often see .
but the truth is far from it .
as an iceberg melts together , i breathe its temporary atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it unleashes mineral drinking water that feeds a lot of life forms .
i &apos;m going to make my images of these icebergs as if i were to make portraits of my ancestors , consciousness , that they exist in these individual moments of this way , and never will exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when they melt ; it &apos;s not an end , but it &apos;s a continuation of their path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the icebergs that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last pictures i &apos;d like to show you are a iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely , you &apos;re actually becoming witnesses of a rolling iceberg .
here you see it .
on the left you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please watch the shape of the iceberg and where it is in the water line .
you can see here , he &apos;s beginning to roll , and the boat &apos;s moved to the other side , the man &apos;s standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is real time .
and just like this , the iceberg shows you a different side of its personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists in the &apos; 80s .
then one day , he came back from walking and he said , &quot; dad , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of it .
tempt is completely paralyzed today .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
i have a company that does design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and support his thing .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with it ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to be able to talk to tony again .
i just want to talk to him again , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you &apos;ve heard about the higher social layer and you &apos;ve got remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
ordinary people are not available to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate now ? &quot;
did anybody see the film &quot; butterfly and diving bell ? &quot;
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk down .
i was like , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
so i came up with a need to just put a check out , and instead i made a check that i didn &apos;t know how to fix it .
i committed to place and place toward his brother and father in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to be able to do his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who carries all this stuff cannot communicate . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface and then draw a laser pointer on it that only regimes the negative surface .
so they pull around and they make art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there follow a life cycle .
it starts with the sex parts , and then the shvaccine words come along , and then the bush publishing , and then finally , people are actually doing art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home , and i ate with my wife , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , second , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use your eyes to control things , we should find a way to control a laser so that he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve done a lot of things .
first of all , we submitted insurance to the doors , and we actually got a device at the speed it can communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
this was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you think , &quot; i &apos;m so worthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
and also , we flew seven programmers from around the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- back home .
my wife , my kids and i moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspirations theorists and archists have taken over our house .
a lot of our friends thought we were pretty stupid to do that , and that we came back and all the images on the walls were silly weighed .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to venice beach , my kids were involved , my dog was also creating this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
these are a cheap sunglasses that we bought on the side of venice , some copper wire and some things from the building market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we built it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we put it on the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of constraints .
no insurance can be crossed .
no hospital either .
any paralyzed person can actually communicate or draw with their eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to the tempt room .
i love this picture because it &apos;s somebody else &apos;s room , and that &apos;s his room .
there &apos;s now all this crummy before the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and undergraduates , tony drew again for the first time after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we tilted his bed so he can see outside .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
unfortunately , we had to break into the parking lot as well , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
he ended up sending us an email with this content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve drawn something .
i feel like i was pushed underwater , and finally somebody went down and lifted my head so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
this is something like our cry .
that keeps us at the pole and keeps us evolving .
and we still need to improve a lot of this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s a magic board coming in .
and somebody who has such artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to do better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve received all sorts of recognition .
we won some awards .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it &apos;s all coming from our own pockets .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong tweeting about us and then , december , honored us the time-magazine as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about it is -- and this includes the whole circle -- that there will be an exhibition in the inner city of los angeles called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will probably be pretty much the hardest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt will be part of the show , which is pretty descending .
so i &apos;m basically talking about , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , then you can do it .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with extraterrestrial technology , but i &apos;ve just captured and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and that question should all of you ask yourself every single day when you ask them something that needs to be done . if not now , when ? and not me , who then ?
thank you .
so , i write for kids , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most common children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to come from like a scientist .
i can be a farmer , or a leather , but nobody has ever chosen any farmer .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something you find because you &apos;ve dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
a friend of mine did it -- richard bollingness &apos;s license .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle i want to tell you about today .
my circle started back in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom swing .
i was the one who was beaten every week in the virgin &apos;s toilet green and blue until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
they did secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to get out of town .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it beat me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and back in the &apos; 80s , i thought it was important to do a work with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a call from this teacher , woman , who said , &quot; i have to see her .
i &apos;m sad that we never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the man i know you &apos;ve found him now .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at them , we laughed , we cried , and we knew it had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we brought them in , and we took care of them , and we put eight on their family because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to meet me as an adult , she turned to a box of ash and was put into my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so happy that this is mentioned so often here today .
it needs the same -- it needs dignity , it needs love and pleasure . and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as it climbs to 1,000 meters .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a drive that makes a sound , ack , ack , ack , ack , ack , ack , ack , ack , ack , ack .
this sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the aircraft companions .
so i looked at them in a minute , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably caught some birds . &quot;
the pilot had already used the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot sent the machine out after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not the route , usually .
it turns off the engines .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the lowest words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; willingness to jumble . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to borders anymore .
i could see it in their eyes , there was a horror that was there to end life .
i want to share with you three things i &apos;ve learned that day about myself .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this life plan , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people i wanted to reach a hand , and it didn &apos;t do all the fences i wanted to flick , all the experiences i wanted to do and never did .
as i was thinking about it later , i noticed a phrase that was , &quot; i collect bad wine . &quot;
because if that wine is so far and that person is there , i open it up .
i never want to move anything in life anymore .
and that urgency , that goal , really changed my life .
the second thing i learned that day -- and that was when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing i really regret .
i had a good life .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i aspired to become better in everything i packaged .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego room .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , with friends , with people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to ban negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i no longer argued with my wife for two years .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m deciding to be happy .
the third thing i learned -- and while the internal clock is starting , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , to count ... &quot;
you can see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
while we were falling down , i had this feeling of being human , dying is not terrifying .
almost like we &apos;re preparing our lives for it .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and this sadness really evolved in one thought , which is that i just wish one thing to do .
i just wish i could see my children grow up .
about a month after that , i went to visit a daughter &apos;s show -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense to me .
i realized at the time that i was connecting the dots that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became the miracle of not dying that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who are flying today is , imagine if you had the same thing happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would you do that you would push them up because you think you &apos;d be there forever ?
how would you change your relationships , and the negative energy in that ?
and more than anything , are you the best parents you can only be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is pretty simple .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for nuclear weapons to develop is the uranian incentive facility in nateness .
the gray boxes you see here , these are real-time control systems .
now if we can commit the systems that control the numbers and the valves , we can actually create a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can do it , if we can do it with an effective windows virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , we &apos;re in the business .
and this is the planning behind stuxnet .
so we start with a windows drug .
the user data is transferred into the gray box , damaged the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- mission .
this is a child game , right ?
i want to tell you how we figured that out .
when we started our research six months ago , it was completely unknown what the meaning and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing we knew is very , very complicated , in terms of the windows part , the dropperone part , he made countless ceround use of it .
and it seemed something to have to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we studied this construct .
and then something funny happened .
stuxnet was like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniff it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
that made no sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized this is a target attack .
fully targeted a particular destination .
the dropper is actively fighting around the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even when the special program that tries to infect is trying to run on that goal .
and if it doesn &apos;t , it doesn &apos;t matter .
so , that really seemed my interest , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , for example , a u.s. power plant or an chemical plant in germany .
so we should soon figure out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decommissioned the code of attacks , and we found that it &apos;s built into two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insiders available information .
they knew all the bits and bytes they had to attack .
they probably even knew the shoe size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you already have the fact that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the user data is a science for you .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s a clip of this assault code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembly language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get out of this code .
so for what we first looked for , system-functioning calls were because we know what they &apos;re doing .
and then we looked for tigers and data structures , and we tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential targets in the real world .
so we needed theories about these targets that we could illuminate or disprove .
to set up these theories , let &apos;s remember that it &apos;s definitely high-level sabotage , it has to be a high-quality goal , and very likely it &apos;s in iran , because most infections have been reported .
well , in this area , there aren &apos;t several thousand targets .
it &apos;s basically going out to the bush of nuclear power plants and the incentive facility in nating .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the centrifuge experts and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called them up , and i tapped their knowledge to compare their expertise with what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor tax .
the rotor is this moving part inside the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor and eventually even let the centrifuge explode .
what we also found out is that the goal of the attack was actually to have it happen slowly and enormously -- obviously trying to make warning engineers desperate so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it fast .
the great digital warhead -- we got a glimpse of it by looking at very precisely data and data structures .
so for example , number 164 , it &apos;s very sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t miss it .
i started working through scientific literature on how these centrifuge are built in nateness , and found that they &apos;re structured in what we call the cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuge in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the code of attacks ?
it &apos;s an almost identical structure .
so again , this fit really well .
and this gave us great confidence for the one we studied here .
well , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just work like that .
these results have been achieved through several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end and we had to recollect ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads actually contributed to the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and turns the rotors down and slows them down , and the big warhead comes into interaction with six cascades , and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s nateness , and it &apos;s just nateness .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other targets could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s something really cool that we discovered -- blew me out of the socks .
down there is the gray box , and up there you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the lovely values of sensors -- so for example , from pressure-sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that continues to happen while attacking , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already taken before .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where , during the pursuit , the surveillance system is fed with pre-recorded video recording .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just to overlist the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and much more aggressive .
the idea is to overlist a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
so for example , in a power station , if the big steam turbine becomes fast , you have to open depositing valves within milliseconds .
of course , this cannot be done by a human machine leader .
so this is where we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and not the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice it .
this is scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
he has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
so for example , he would work just as well -- at a power station or at a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the user data on a usb key , as we saw at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and if you do that , you end up with a cyber-weapon of mass destruction .
that &apos;s the consequence we need to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , in europe and japan .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we need to face the consequences , and we need to start to prepare ourselves .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , there was a lot of reporting that people assume the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind that is cyberpower .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states , fortunately , fortunately .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of healing . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and kind of dangerous at the same time .
i went to jail -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war zones -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , a very dangerous end .
in fact , i &apos;ve spent most of my career looking at terrible situations , and all of this just trying to study social resources that are engaging and interesting , and hopefully understanding in a way that makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to a tedtalk to look at the world of branding and sponsoring , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
some of you may have heard that a few weeks ago , i turned on an ad on ebay .
i sent some facebook messages , some twitter messages , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights on my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unprecedented opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let that go -- buy the name rights on the talk that you just see at that point that didn &apos;t have a lot of titles or a lot of content and didn &apos;t have a lot of clues about what the subject would actually be .
so what you got was this : her name here , my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the topic is going to be , which could eventually fly you around your ears after content , especially if i let your company stand there for your participation .
but apart from that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people watch these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just working titles , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew anyone was going to buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
but in the new project i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re studying the world of marketing , of advertising .
as i said , over the years , i &apos;ve been in some pretty terrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could stirre me to go into something as difficult and as dangerous as these guys into a room .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the film is going to be called , &quot; the performance performance performance . &quot;
so what happens in the wishes of class is that everything , from top to bottom , from beginning to end , is completely with brands -- from the front sponsor you &apos;ll see in the movie , this is the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the stake center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity forever -- forever .
and so the film will study this whole idea -- this is what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
this was more to emphasize .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but not only are we going to have the brand x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever drove out of &quot; the class ever , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a little bit of attention from the wishes of wishes .
so the idea is , besides showing you that brands are a part of life , are actually getting you to fund the film ?
and we &apos;re actually showing the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;ll see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so that &apos;s the whole concept , the whole movie , from beginning to end .
and i would be happy if ceg was helping do this .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
i don &apos;t know how recipient people are going to be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use sight , because it has a negative connotation -- but you know how this is going to work ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet them , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the film comes out , we might look like a horror vollidiot .
what do you think the answer is going to be ?
the answer will be highly likely to be no .
but is it a difficult thing to do about the movie or a hard thing for me ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about what brands are .
yeah .
when you look at the people you have to do with ...
there are some places we can turn to .
be the camera .
i thought , &quot; make the camera out of &quot; would mean we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out it meant , in fact , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your film . &quot;
and just like this , all these companies disappeared one by one .
nobody wanted to have anything to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they wanted to have absolutely nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product as many people as possible , make it as many people as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , at this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting investigative tool that the masses get this message .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but you see , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was this .
in fact , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is for is a problem .
you see , if you type in transparency in google search , this is -- this is one of the first pictures that appears .
i really like your way , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- freely from deception and bag , simply to explore and look through ; instantly , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in business terms -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes to the point where it &apos;s supposed to be done , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is scary -- like this strange bear that still breeds .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange highway .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole cool whip of whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
you see , when i was a kid , and my father caught me in lying -- and there he is looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you can see , with this film , we wanted to tell the true version .
but there was only one company , an agency was willing to help us -- and even because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it myself , i had to bend the middle man and go right to the companies with my team .
so what they started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a broad problem .
i have friends who make big , giant hollywood movies , and i have friends who make little pass movies like i do .
and my friends , the big , giant hollywood movies , say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends say , &quot; well , how are we going to compete with these big , giant hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the performance performance performance ever . &quot;
so how accurate are we going to see in the movie ?
every time i get on the way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see deban dedorant .
and every time i interview somebody , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are you here ? you look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this before the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great jets .
either &quot; flhyfusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; you &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped both for men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
that &apos;s the shorthand .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an extraordinary socket .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing things like this -- you know , people remember ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
what words would you describe as ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
transferred technology .
technology is not the way to describe something that somebody &apos;s doing under the boxes .
we &apos;re talking about audacious , fresh .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fight smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times more fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million companies .
what about me ? what about print types ?
i have to talk to the man on the street , who are like me , otto ordinary consumers .
you &apos;re supposed to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothing .
1980s , revival hits scaterpunk , except for the wash day .
all right , what &apos;s the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably dark glamour .
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray notes and stuff like that .
but usually i have a accessoire , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would be probably a classic mercedes cabrio .
man 2 : the brand i am is , i would say , awesome fly .
partly , part of the hippie , part of yogi , part of the brooklyn-girl -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the guy of the museum .
i sell museum animals all over the country , all over the world .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex , because i was executive .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol addicted writer berling .
is this possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer brand .
i &apos;m tom .
well , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself flying at the intersection of dark glamour and neglect .
and what i noticed was that i needed an expert .
i needed someone who could come into my head , someone who could really help me understand what &apos;s called &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nestle , feminine , hallmark , discover that brand personality .
if you could do it for those , you could certainly help me .
you brought your pictures with you , right ?
i have that . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how that &apos;s connected to your thoughts and feelings about you .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
tell me about the world .
md : this world ? i think your world is the world you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come and start from a place , and for me they come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what &apos;s the relationship with the thoughts and feelings about you ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like special things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
what &apos;s the machete ? what ppet stage are you right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
which other metamorphosis have you gone through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be scared . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what &apos;s going to happen .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that their brand personality separated two , but it had supplementary pages -- the morgan spurlock-brand is an eight-day brand .
they add very well .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies will only focus on one strength , rather than both .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- to avoid things where they &apos;re not sure , they &apos;re going to avoid fear , these elements , and they &apos;re going to welcome them , and they &apos;re actually going to turn them into something positive for themselves , and this is a sketchboard .
what other brands are doing this ?
the first is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , the target , wii , mini of mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there are brands and eight effective brands , these things that come and go , but a playful , remarkable brand is a pretty strong thing .
an eighth , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , what would you be like ?
you &apos;re an up-attribute ? are you something that brings blood to whales ?
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are you something a little bit quieter , reserved , conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , timely , adventurous , failing and loving like erol flynn , agile and agile , professional , magical and mystic like gandalf .
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are they mindful and monsoon like 007 ?
are you established , traditionally , nurturing , protective , compassionate like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , safe , born , holy , as the dalai lama or yoda ?
throughout the movie , we had over 500 companies who were up and down companies saying no because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but they found 17 brand partners who were willing to get rid of that control that wanted to do business with someone as eight and as i playful as i was , and that eventually empowered us to tell stories that we couldn &apos;t normally tell -- stories that would never support an advertiser .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , the way we tell the story in this movie , that today you use mris to map the pleasure centers of the brain , both to make advertising and movies .
we went to sao paulo , where outside advertising has been banned .
all over the city , for five years , there have been no time afel , no poster , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove to school districts where companies are pushing their way in impoverished schools , all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got most of the feedback , or where i got the greatest success , are where i interacted with things directly .
and this is what these brands did .
because they surrounded the middle man , they surrounded the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview challenges .
and what was that for you ? what was it successful ?
now that the film had premiered at the sundance film festival , we can look at it .
according to burrelle , the premiere one in january , and since then -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this actually includes just a two-week period .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film was not delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not streaming .
it hasn &apos;t come out in other countries .
well , finally , the film took a very big snapshot .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising we talked to has recommended their customers to let their fingers go .
one of the things i firmly believe is that if you take your chance , you take risks , you get opportunities .
i think if you stop people from that , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that when we move forward , we have to encourage people to take risks .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of opportunities that they might be scared .
finally , when we move forward , we should welcome the fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome fear . welcome risk .
each of them is a big spoon full , so we welcome risk .
and finally , if we welcome transparency , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
and that &apos;s what i said with honesty and transparency , my whole talk is called transparency , which was presented by my good friends of emc who paid $ 7100 for the name rights on ebay .
big data is being transformed into huge opportunities for organizations around the world .
emc : &quot; welcome transparency . &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , on behalf of transparency , this : what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i have a check in my pocket , put it on the top of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at 7100 dollars to fund my ted performance the next year .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else with google , and i encouraged myself to do something with museums and art , and my boss , who is today , gave me a green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the performance .
there are a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and explaining to your access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i &apos;m not heavy -- but i had too many museums and those works of art .
so when i went to see these museums , i started to learn a lot .
and as i was working for google , i was trying to make this yearning -- to make art more accessible -- to bring technology together .
we then formed a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m probably going to start with the demonstration and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to googleproject.com .
you can look around all these museums here .
there &apos;s the uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijk , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you get in two ways -- very simple .
moment , and wham , you &apos;re at this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
you want to orient in the museum ?
open up the map , and jump with a click .
in it they are , they want to go to the end of the gangs .
just keep on . lots of fun .
grind them .
thank you , but the best part is still coming .
so now i &apos;m in front of one of my favorite , harvester workers at pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plussian sign .
when the museum gave us the picture , click on it .
this is now one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click on this -- but i click this away now .
this is one of the images we &apos;ve held with what &apos;s called the gigapix technology .
this image , for example , has about 10 billion points , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points ? &quot;
i &apos;m going to show you that now .
you can zoom in and zoom out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
but then you really want to go deep .
and so i started playing around , and i realized that something was happening there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , this sounds interesting . &quot;
i got close to it , and i slowly realized that these kids actually beat a little bit .
i did some research , talked to some people at the met , and in fact , it &apos;s a game called squail , where one gans is beaten with a stick on tuesday .
it seemed to be pretty popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to really get close to it , you can go up to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i &apos;ll zoom out to see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
the best part is -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding details .
but what if you want to see the paintbrush strikes ?
and what only when you want to see van gogh creating this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can really go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in to one of my favorite parts of this picture until i &apos;m really at the cracks .
this is starlight night , probably never seen this before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have the time .
that &apos;s the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
all of you , all of you -- whether it &apos;s rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all of these images you can make your own collection .
you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom in .
this is the donated one , the national allery .
you can see everything with remarks , send to your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think finally , to me , the main thing is that all the wonderful things don &apos;t come from google .
they , i think , don &apos;t even come from the museums .
i may not say that .
they come from the artists .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope we &apos;re going to be talking to this digital medium of art and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question i get asked the other day is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s supposed to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s all about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
if we had a measure to measure the aptitudes of each hemisphere , we could show their brain .
for example , this would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who is completely intuitive .
now , where would you place your brain at this scale ?
some of us may have chosen for one of these extremes , but i think for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this with a high aptitute that &apos;s at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with the most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good proportion of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good deal of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop these intuitions ? well , we love to play with things .
so we go out and play with it and then see how it responds , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
they basically do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that they &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that one thing can only be in one place at the same time .
i mean , it can sound strange to think about that thing is in two different places at the same time , but they haven &apos;t been born with this idea , they &apos;ve developed it .
i remember watching a child play on a floor threshold .
he was another little kid , and he didn &apos;t do very well at it all the time .
but i bet he taught a very valuable lesson with the ground threshold , which is that the big things don &apos;t just leave you behind , and they stay in one place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist because they don &apos;t play with the gays of the land , they play with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all kinds of weird things -- like flying directly through walls , or that at the same time you can be in two different places .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called them the theory of quantum mechanics .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the small , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t need them to describe the great everyday objects around us .
this didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe just because i don &apos;t play with particles that often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all of these particles are made of particles and all of these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t just follow everything the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
so i &apos;d feel really better about the whole thing if we could kind of show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so a few years ago , i set out to do that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see that green dot there in the middle there .
this is the piece of metal i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m expanding it a little bit . we &apos;re looking into the center right here .
and here &apos;s a really big recording of this little piece of metal .
so what we look at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i made this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new silicon slices , and i racked on all the big devices for 100 hours .
for the last little bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this kind of swimming pool of hole and get this thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it needs a little help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , when i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people enter , and i listen to all these things because i don &apos;t want to bother them with , or frankly , they go away .
so quantum mechanics says that unmoving objects also feel the same .
the fellow riders for inmobile objects are not just human , but also light that shines at them , and the wind that passes past them and the heat of the space .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal acts mechanically , we had to throw out all the passengers .
and then we did .
we turned the light off , put it in a vacuum , suck out all the air , cooling it up until almost now , all the way down on the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really moving strange .
instead of just being quiet there , it vibrated . the way it vibrated was sort of like this -- like a wider and coherent bubble .
by giving him a little push , we were able to make it vibrate at the same time , not vibrate -- something that &apos;s only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you about is what &apos;s truly fantastic .
what does it mean for an object at the same time to vibrate and not vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
so the first case : all the trillion atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time the atoms are moving up and down .
just to precise times , you agree .
they &apos;re delocated the rest of the time .
that means that every atom at the same time is in two different places , which means at the same time that the entire piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
this was worth me for all of this year in the clean room , because , you know , check this out , the scale difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine that you &apos;re in several places at the same time , how would that feel ?
how would your mind mind be delocated in the space ?
there &apos;s another aspect of history .
when we warmed it up , turned on the light and looked at the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics say that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it &apos;s even deeper .
so , these connections , their connections with all the things around them , are literally defining who they are , and this is the profound and strange quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should conceptualize how we think about economic development .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they live and want to work , they will be given the opportunity to choose between at least one hand of different cities that everybody competes for new residents .
right now , we &apos;re far from that goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who are not even available to a single city that she would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is they &apos;re worth so much more than they &apos;re building them .
so we could end the world very easily with a dumb , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd to you as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
you know , just exchange the construction of apartments against cities .
imagine if half of the people who want to live in homes do this already ; half of them don &apos;t yet .
you could try and expand the capacity of the apartments that existed .
but you know what they &apos;re going to be inserting , in these homes and their environment , there are laws to avoid complaining and deflecting from exhaustion .
so it turns out it &apos;s very difficult to come up with all these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of housing , assuming that the laws would support you and not prevent you .
so i &apos;ve proposed that governments create new surfaces that provide enough space for a city and give them a name : charter cities .
i found out later that , for example , around the same time , jafour and octavio were thinking about the challenge of a reform in honduras .
they knew that every year about 75,000 hondurans could leave their country to go to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an unsettled area of our country -- what if we just name it one message -- one part of the american embassy -- and then if people want to work under the canadian rules or the united states , they can work there , and they can do everything they usually have to go to canada or america on the surface of these messages ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras was under a major depression .
in the next plant-based elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround whose program promised both innovations and missions .
he asked octavio to become his stable .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
through improvement , tried and consumed by using , i tried to reduce this complicated concept from the charter city to the basic elements .
the first point is that the importance of laws , laws that determine that you &apos;re not allowed to disturb existing housing owners .
we pay a lot of attention to new technologies , but the progress needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us behind .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
he showed him jafour again .
they called me up .
and he said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the head of our country ! &quot;
so we met in december in the boardroom of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make it clear how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than what they cost .
and i used this chart to show you how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that in some cases a square meter is worth thousands of dollars .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , in a place where there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk was a place in a very simple way that a charter city is a place whose early country is uninhabited , a founding contract that determines the laws that govern there , and people are able to decide either to live under these rules or not .
so i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we have to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way to move our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and fifth of january .
so i gave another with facts of filled talk that included a graph like this that tries to realize that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has an area of 100 square kilometers .
so i &apos;ve tried to convince the hondurans to , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s over 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and aware .
the congressional leader came up on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i have it here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and you played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point is that a new city gives new opportunities to people .
there would be a way to live in a city that would be in honduras , instead of hundreds of kilometers away in the north .
and a new city includes new opportunities for leaders as well .
the leaders of the government in honduras would be dependent on the help of partnerships , and they could benefit from their partner countries , which they would help create the laws for this charter and for leadership , that everybody can trust charter .
and the realization of president lobo was that the confidence of the implementation i &apos;ve thought of as a way to get the foreign investors to come in and build this city could be equivalent to all the parties in honduras that have been under fear and mistrust for many years .
we &apos;ve driven into an area .
this picture is from this place .
it captures a thousand square miles .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted to congress for a change in the constitution to have a broad rule that &apos;s reliable for particular developing areas .
in a country that just passed a major crisis , congress was elected to a vote with 124 .
all the parties , all the factions of society , were supporting this .
to become part of the constitution , but it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved for the second time with 114 to a voice .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and february 24th , a delegation of about 30 famines went to the two places in the world that were most interested in entering the city &apos;s business .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city center built in south korea worming large as the city of bostons .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years , after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in building cities is singapore .
there have already been two cities built in china , and the third one is in preparation .
so if you &apos;re basically thinking about it , that &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already been working on a legal system that managers are allowed to participate , and it &apos;s also being worked on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a court for the decent appeal of the legal system there .
also urban designers and construction are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one thing , as you already know , has been explained , there are many tenants .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to engage in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
there are 700 million people around the world who say they want to live in a permanently different place .
a million people leave latin america every year and migrate to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to return their families to find work -- sometimes single mothers who have to earn enough money to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , it &apos;s even children who have been trying to find their parents , who , in some cases , have not seen more for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about in honduras building an entirely new city ?
or even building dumb from these cities , or distributing hundreds of people around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities competing for new residents ?
that &apos;s an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras have asked me to say , thank you ted .
do you know how many decisions do you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions you make in a typical week ?
i recently did a survey of over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions , which , by one day , makes a typical american in one day 70 .
and also , a study recently was done with ceos , where they watched the ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different subjects that these ceo has been doing , and how much time they have to make decisions that are related to the topics .
and they found that the average ceo , on the week , was dealing with 139 tasks .
each of these topics was , of course , many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
do you know how many decisions do you make in the nine minutes of the category to the person in the one hour ?
how good do you think you &apos;re about to deal with the decisions ?
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern times , the decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
when i ask you a question , raise because i &apos;m blind , just the hand if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , when i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is , are you ready to hear about the decision-overload problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , and at least he was really exclusive at the time .
it was a store called a draeger &apos;s .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure savings .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essig and over 500 different kinds of fruit and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drunk guiding water .
i loved going to this business , but at one point i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil aisle .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were locked into boxes that came from a thousand year-old olive trees .
so one day i decided to go to the filially-side , and i asked the head , &quot; does this model work that you really have all these opportunities to people ? &quot;
and he pointed to the bus charges of tourists who came every day and usually had their cameras with them .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s your marmelting gang .
they had 348 different kinds of martian .
we set up a little prevention set right on the business .
we put six different flavors of martia there , or 24 different flavors of martia , and we looked at two things : first of all , what case would more people stand and try martia ?
there are more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent than when it was six , about 40 percent .
and then we looked at what case people bought more of a glass of martia .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who stayed when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of martia .
of the people who stopped when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of martium .
now , when you do the math , people bought six times more of a glass of march , who they had six to choose than when they had 24 .
now , buying a glass of mars is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waist -- but it turns out that the decision-making overload problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
so the theme of the day : financial saving .
i &apos;m going to describe to you now a study that i did with gur huberman , eden kamenica , wei jang , where we look at the decisions to save the retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans all over the united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of federal officers that were possible to a retirement plan , the 401 plan , the probability of more being saved for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a relationship .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that people were offering anything between two and 59 different fonds .
and what we found was that the more fund was offered , the more fund was actually the participatory rate was lower .
now if you look at the extremes , the plans , the two fonds offered , had a parent in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that offered almost 60 fonds , the partial rate now dropped to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even when you get close , when there are more opportunities to choose , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tend to be more likely to have more choices available to them , the more they avoided to choose stock and finds .
the more opportunities they had , the more they put all their money in pure market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions belong to the decisions that someone would recommend when we care about their future of financial well-being .
well , in the last 10 years in humans , we &apos;ve seen three essential negative consequences that offer more and more choices to people .
they push the decision -- push it down , even if it comes to their own best interest .
they make rather worse decisions -- worse financial decisions and worse medical decisions .
they choose more for things that they satisfy themselves , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for this is that maybe we enjoy it , we enjoy these huge shelves of mayonaise , mustard , essig and martian , but we can &apos;t actually take the comparisons and drag the boundaries and then actually choose something out of the fantastic deal .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just apply in your business .
first of all , narrow .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it was never true than now that less is more .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; narrow . &quot;
you &apos;re always worried that you lose legal space .
but in fact , we see it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to be limited , and the unimportant similarities are going to be rid of , well , there &apos;s a increase in sales , there &apos;s a cost of it , &amp; amp ; and there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and culture types from 26 to 15 , they saw a 10 percent increase in sales .
when the golden cat corporation passed off their 10 of the worst selling cat cat streams , they experienced that the profits went up by 87 percent -- a result of both , the increase in sales and the reduction of cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today spends you 45,000 products .
a typical wal-mart offers them 100,000 products today .
but the ninth largest supermarket today , the ninth largest supermarket in the world is aldi , and they only offer them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that have come to market recently , about how to best mandate choice , was something that david laibson did very much design with , it &apos;s a program that &apos;s offered at harvard .
every single harvard worker is automatically part of a life fund .
those who really want to make a selection are offered 20 funds , not 300 or more fund .
you know , as people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
they &apos;re all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t stand to each other , their customers can &apos;t either . &quot;
well , before we started lunch today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to provide an all-including vacation to the most beautiful street in this audience .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i &apos;d like to read them for you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a few seconds to read them and then i &apos;m going to clap them when you &apos;re willing to take on gary &apos;s offer .
okay . everybody who &apos;s willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
well , let me show you a little bit more of it .
you know , it was a trick , right ?
now who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
in fact , the first time you looked at objective , the first time you had more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess you felt it the second time real .
because the images made it feel more real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps them deal with the problem of decision overload , which is concretification .
it &apos;s about people understanding the difference between possibilities , understanding what consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and what those consequences need to be felt vivid and concrete .
why on average do people spend 15 to 30 percent more if they use an ec-map or a credit card than they do in barmoney ?
because it doesn &apos;t really feel like we &apos;re feeling money .
and it turns out that when you do it , it feels concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro artictero , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees who worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation for their retirement plan .
and during that gathering , we left this gathering just like it was , we just added a little bit of a little bit .
the smallness that we put in was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were to save money .
where we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was a increase in the number of people who were willing to save or an increase in four percent by the amount they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorization .
we can better deal with more categories than we do with more choices .
here , for example , is a study we did in a magazine process .
it turns out it has a variation in the way of supermarkets up and down in the northeast , between 331 different kinds of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines and i split them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , you think i &apos;ve given you more choice and better choice than i would have given you the 400 , versus if i gave you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to balance them .
here are two different dirty facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called swing .
if you think the left ad swing is and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think it &apos;s on the left side of jazz , and it &apos;s the one on the right side of swing , please clap .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful category .
the categories have to tell the selector something that doesn &apos;t make the selection .
and you often see this problem when you look at the long lists of all these fund .
who do you actually want to inform with it ?
my fourth technique : requirement for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we just need to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
i &apos;ll show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : a car purchase .
here &apos;s a german car maker who gives them the opportunity to configure their car completely on their own .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now these decisions are different in the number of choices that they provide per decision .
car colors , outdoor color of the car -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i &apos;m doing now is changing the order in which the decisions appear .
half of customers go from the many possibilities of 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , lots of possibilities .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you use the standard choice all the time in the decision , that means you &apos;re overwhelmed , the hottest , i lose you .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the small selection ponds go over and over again and again choose the standard selection .
we lose them .
go from the very few choices to the very many , then stay there .
they &apos;re the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple beginning , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear chooses nothing to tell me about my preferences in interior equipment , it still prepare me to choose .
it also gets me excited about the big product that i put together , so i &apos;m willing to let myself motivate with interest in it .
let me wrap up .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that alleviate the problem of policy-overlapping -- narrow -- they get rid of the superfluous alternatives ; concrete -- make it real ; categorize -- we can do better with more categories , less possibilities ; prepared for complexity .
each of these techniques i &apos;m going to tell you today is thinking to help them manage the opportunities -- well , they can use it for themselves , well for the people they provide service .
because i think the key to the best choice i can choose is that you &apos;re picky at the selection .
and the more we choose , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-managers at youtube , and i look at youtube videos .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how video is becoming viral , and then finally , why it &apos;s important at all .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult .
but web videos have allowed us to all or all of our creative activities to be terribly famous in some of the world &apos;s culture .
every single one of you could be famous about the internet to the next saturday .
but youtube is uploaded over 48 hours of video every minute .
again , only a tiny percentage of this is ever viral , and it &apos;s looked at thousands of times , and so at the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , partial communities , and the unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
whoa !
ohhhhhhhhhhhhh , what www !
last year , vasquez sent this video he had filmed in front of his yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this chart shows what it looked like when the video first became popular last summer .
in fact , don &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because you do that when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain reflection .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmy .
jimmy kimsky sent the tweet who eventually made the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmy kimsky introduces us to new and interesting things and shows you a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s license to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . ttin &apos;down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we were going to have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it was looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the chart looked like .
just like the &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
well , it was friday , that &apos;s right .
if you want to know , these other spikes are also free days .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 formulated it , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson of the mystery science theater was one of the first to make a joke on twitter about this .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers shared a point of view with a large audience and therefore accelerated the process .
then this community of people sharing this big insider joke and started talking about it and playing with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies from &quot; friday &quot; on youtube .
already in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single day .
unlike the one-way conversation of the 20th century , the community &apos;s participation is our way of becoming part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
nyan cat is animation and music in final loop .
it &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was almost 50 million times looking at .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version of it that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity dominated in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something we can all participate in .
today we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something we do with it .
who could have looked like this ?
who could have predicted &quot; double rainbow &quot; or rebecca black or &quot; nyan cat ? &quot;
what scripts can you have written in that urge ?
in a world where every minute is uploaded to two days of video , only really unique and unexpected can emerge like the video i mentioned .
i admit i wasn &apos;t particularly interested in this , when a friend of mine told me to watch this great video about a guy protesting in new york against a ticket ticket .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t drive a bike path , but there are often disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike path all the time .
since this was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestate &apos;s funny idea and his argument was looking at five million times .
this approach to everything new we do in a creative way .
and all of this leads us to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
uhhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative communities , totally unexpected , are the characteristics of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to and determines the audience .
as i said , one of the largest stars at the moment -- justin beber -- did his beginning with youtube .
nobody has to give their ideas green light .
and today we all feel ourselves as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of old media , and they &apos;re not going to meet the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
how can i talk about the interconnectedness between women in 10 minutes , and how the amazing strength of this interconnectedness was manifest in the lives of a four-year-old girl in 10 minutes when she was more than 30 years ago with her little sister , her mother and mother , for five days , and nights , sat in a small boat in the chinese sea . a interconnectedness that noted in the life of this little girl and never disappeared -- this little girl who now lives in san francisco and talks to you today ?
the story is not over yet .
she &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still being put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man burning his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
think of him as the march of the communications in saigon in terms of how he agreed that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends did , are now mocking his .
he moved back to silence .
he died , broken by history .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that history was trying to crush , but we were over it .
the next piece of puzzle is how a boat is running in the early morning red in the lake .
my mother was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , with two little girls .
for her , life had asked her a problem : her family escape and a new life in australia .
it was completely excluded that she could fail there .
after a four-year-old and film tire saga glitt strapped a boat still to sea as a fishing boat .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the biggest fear was that they were scared of pirates , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother wore a little poison bottle .
if you had a prisoner , my sister and i would have drank her and my grandmother &apos;s self .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , the clapping of every wave on the bow , the vast and blank horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came many times , but had the death of the men on our boat or the failure of the engine that six hours didn &apos;t want to start .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple to give me one of the men on the platform .
no apple ever tasted that way again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece is four women in three generations building together a new life .
we settled down in footscray , one of the working-class residents , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
unlike the ancient middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophistication in footscray .
the smells from the shells of ladaism came from the rest of the world .
and the feathers broken english were swapped between people who had one thing in common : they started fresh .
my mother worked on farms , then a assembly line at a car factory , six days , twice the layers .
she somehow managed to find the time to acquire english and it-qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was given and was put into more english and mathematics training , no matter what we had to give up for , most of the time , the new things that always came out of second hand .
two strokes for school , each one to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform up to the buttons , because it had to reach six years .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; sled eye &quot; and here and there are murals : &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
where is it going ?
something was spreading inside of me .
there was a meeting to reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to get you out of the way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to our grandmother &apos;s movements in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat in nightmares .
and my job was to stay awake every night until their nightmares came so that i could wake them up .
she opened up a computer business , then did a cosmetics education , and opened up another business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t make change , angry and inflexible , and troubled kids , caught between two worlds .
loans and sponsors were seeded .
centers have been built up .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one of them , i was the classic asian student , the relentless requirements for himself .
in the other hand , i was involved in uncertain lives , the tragic scars of violence , the drug abuse and the insulation .
but so many got help over the years .
and because of this help , in my last year of law school , i was chosen as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted by one piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges of the fittest didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous resident of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist , invited to speak to places she &apos;d never heard of , and housing that she could never have imagined .
i was not familiar with the label .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who graduated every day as they had for 20 years , telling each other &apos;s stories and singing them , three of them still are in the same bed .
i told my mother i was not going to do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as they were when we climbed the boat .
no , never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about youth unemployment and education , and the neglecting of marginalized and disenfranchised .
and the more open i talked , the more i should tell you .
i met people in all walks of life , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the borders of what could be .
and although i graduated from that , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a new one , in the picture -- and not just okay , but something that you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because admitting can lead so easily to the collapse of the horizon , can mean so light that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone enough from my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is breaking apart , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that wouldn &apos;t have been allowed have been explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an inconvenient optimism , a strange mixture of humility and wagnity .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i gathered a small team of people around me for the boxes not going to be an inconsistent challenge .
for one year , we didn &apos;t have a dime .
at the end of one day , i cooked a giant pot soup that we shared .
we worked until late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but it was a little brilliant about this , and we made the breakthrough .
i made a decision to move to the united states .
after just one journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure continued .
before i close the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm , and the local mandarin was the most important person .
life had not changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after her birth .
her mother pulled her on her own .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandate whose mother beat her .
without the support of her husband , she worried about a sensation by bringing him to court and being more claimed in her own case and getting a bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go , &quot; it turned out to be untrue .
i was just shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 kilometers away in melbourne .
i looked through the shooting wall and i saw it standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to pass .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around her coffin .
we told her stories , and we assured her we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said it had to close the coffin .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm , and the rest of you is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because you &apos;ve been holding it this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let go of them . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through the women .
see who we were and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come into our lives would have come to us .
the defeat would have been too simple .
now i &apos;d like my own children , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever want one wish ?
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of justice .
can i give you a bug in your life that drives , bold at every wave , the static blob of the engine , the vast horizon , that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it secure , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos;s mother today is in the fourth row or the fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it even photography ?
because this is , of course , a picture you can &apos;t pick up with your camera .
yet my interest in photography began when i received my first digital camera at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my earlier preference for drawing , but it was a little different , because when you use the camera , the process was actually in planning .
and when you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press it down .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about going in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process begins when the trigger is squeezed .
pictures like this : a construction site along a much richer road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and it still keeps a realistic level .
or photos like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but everyone with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
when i say reality , i mean photo-reality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like you could have been able to do that in a picture .
photos where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what &apos;s the trick it makes it look realistic ?
is this the detail or the colors ?
is it about the light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world and how it can be made on a two-dimensional surface .
it &apos;s not about what &apos;s realistic , it &apos;s about what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all relate to in a three-dimensional world .
but in a certain way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional , like it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we also overlist our brains , because our brains just don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process combining photographs .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so the things that make an image look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but when we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to make a realistic result .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but you can combine something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photographs should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same lighting .
and these two pictures meet these two demands -- shot at the same height and the same lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to tell the difference where the individual images start and end up connecting them seamlessly .
make it impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges of the individual images , photographic deprivation , like field depth , escaped colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and make them look like a single photo , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that this is just a landscape picture , and the bottom part has been manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of photographs of different places .
personally , i find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew it took me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been taken on a jellyfish trip .
the bank is from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
and yes , i even dyed the house up on the island of red to make it look more swedish .
so to get to a realistic result , i think it &apos;s going to work out from me to design .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well-planned .
and then if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and also quite realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that limited us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important point about this is that we stopped talking to our patients .
and one of the things we introduced at biboud university was to hire a key listener .
and she &apos;s not doing this very scientifically -- she &apos;s putting a cup of coffee or tea and asking the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how &apos;s it going ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everybody -- maybe most of the electronic health projects fail : because we stopped listening .
this is my wlan-scale . this is a very simple thing .
she &apos;s got a button , on / off .
and i jumped on it every morning .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i put my job at 95 pounds .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it sends my data to google health .
and there you &apos;re called from my general doctor , so that he can see where my weight problem is , not only the moment i need cardiological support or something , but also the view of the past .
there &apos;s something else .
you may know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning i jump on my wlan-scale , and people talk to me before i sit in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salad today , lucia . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the group compulsion , group compulsion , to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could get people to smoke .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs and get them to play together some kind of game to control their health better .
next week , this is what comes to the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure device that you include to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor , for example , and share it with others for a little over 100 dollars .
at that point , the patients come in . not only can they take control again , captain on their own ship , but can also help us with health care in the face of the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of health , double-demand , and so on .
make ways that are easy to use and start with this , hug patients on the team .
and they can do that through these methods , but they can also crowdsource it .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done is i want to share with you through a quick video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atm machines are around maastrict .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and of course , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked around , and nobody knew .
nobody knew where to find the next life-saving aed in that moment .
so , what did we do ? we started crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where it is , &quot; because sometimes it is closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have already been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we developed an app for layar , extended reality , to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastrict and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and within the next few weeks your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed to save lives .
and today , we want to do this not just as aed4u , as the product calls itself , but also as aed4us .
and we want to bring this to a global level .
and we &apos;re asking our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like node points to crowdsource these aeds all over the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone breaks down , whether it &apos;s your own relationships or somebody else , you can find an aed like this .
the other thing we &apos;re asking for is that companies around the world are helping us with confirmation of these aeds .
these could be curiosity agencies , for example , or technicians , just to make sure that the reported aed is still in his place .
please help us do it and try to not only improve health , but take control of it .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to report the unexpected discoveries .
i work in solar technology .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to protect the environment by ...
... it gets crowdsourced to crowdsource .
here &apos;s a quick video of what we &apos;re doing .
oh . a moment .
it may take a long time to get there .
now -- we can just skip this over -- i &apos;m just going to skip the video instead ...
no .
this is not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time has been over ?
okay . thank you very much .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much everything they actually hate , and we let them work in government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the peacekeepers for geeks .
we choose some fellows every year , and we let them work with city administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to city users .
and there they developed great apps , working with urban employees .
but what they really do is show what &apos;s possible with technology today .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he really is looking for is somebody who &apos;s freaked up when he &apos;s in because he knows he &apos;s not very good at the branding when he &apos;s covered by a meter snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
we had a team of fellows last year in boston in order to program the code for america .
they were there in february , and it &apos;s happened a lot last february .
and they realized that the city never sucks up these fire hydrants .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik michael &apos;s ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents freed up the sidewalks in front of these parts .
so he did what any good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a fire hydrant .
you tune him free to sniff when he snows .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s spreading rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu , who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the gutted gullys .
and chicago has just introduced them so that people can freak up the boardrooms as they sniff it .
we now know nine cities planning to use this app .
and it &apos;s spread unemployably , organic , of course .
when you know about government technology , you know that it &apos;s not normally going to happen .
the software funding typically takes a few years .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year , where three people took two and a half months .
it was about a way that parents can figure out which are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it had gone over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that the taxpayers have cost two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app written in a few days , and then spread from rare , is a kind of shot before the bug , to the institution of the government .
it shows how the government could work better -- no longer how a private company thinks it should be .
and not even like a tech company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , at this app , it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a saled institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and this is a very good news , because it turns out we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who are making the tools we need to effectively tackle things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america , &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people around the country writing up and writing government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost out of the eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake at the work office and all the other things we &apos;re really excited about is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do in common , that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up with the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you that you think about it because things are changing .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is changing .
and because the government ultimately exhausts its force from us -- remember , &quot; we the people ? &quot; -- how we think about how this change is going to happen .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government was all about choosing people in an office .
now after two years , i came to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about communities , about marsupial rats .
this is the call center for service and information .
that &apos;s where you typically get out when you call in your city 311 .
if you ever have a chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call the government for many different problems , including that there &apos;s a marsupial in your house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he types &quot; marsupial rat &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open up all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock is out ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
not only do boston have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the new urban mechanics office in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- this came in : &quot; marsupial rat in my trash clay . can &apos;t say whether it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens is different .
scott was talking about man to human beings .
but on citizens connect is all public so everybody can see it .
and in this case , it was a neighbor .
and the next entry we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the garbage scale behind the house .
marsupial rat ? yes . alive ? yap .
turned the garbage clay on the page . went home .
good night , sweet marsupial rat . &quot;
pretty simple .
that &apos;s great . that &apos;s where the digital hits the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to crowdsource the government .
but it &apos;s also a great example of the government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform here .
i &apos;m talking more about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
one citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
they connected these two people .
and you could have combined them with state services if they had been needed , but a neighbor is a much better and cheaper alternative to state services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we empower our communities .
call the animal beginner , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we have to remember that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they believe that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is the choice .
how often did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we &apos;ve used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we recline , and we expect that the government , reflects our values and fulfills our needs , and then not much has changed ?
this is because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15-inch .
and what &apos;s below it is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use that word with that kind of contempt .
but it &apos;s this contempt that makes this thing that we own and that we pay for , that makes something that works against us , something else , and then we made ourselves out of ourselves .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to do bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is going on .
we need to rely on the government &apos;s machinery .
so the occupation movement has done it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of worrying citizens who wrote a very detailed 325 page report , which is an answer to the memo of the law .
this is not being politically active , this is bureaucratic .
now , for those of us who &apos;ve given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world we want to leave behind our children .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges they have to face .
do we really believe that we need to do what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it has to get more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to promote the function of government in a way that can actually do something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that grew up with the internet , and it knows it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you have to build the right systems .
now the average age of our fellows is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up with seeing its voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this battle that we &apos;re all fighting for , for who to talk ; they &apos;re all allowed to talk .
you can express your mind , on every channel at any time , and you do it .
so when you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , you don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps allow us to use our hands to improve our communities .
this may be to freak up a fire hydrant , to weep around , to turn a trash can with a marsupial rat .
and certainly , we could have these fire hydrants all the time off , and a lot of people do that .
but these apps are like small digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of the government who pay and receive taxes .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things we need to do together , everybody together , we &apos;re just going to be a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
my role is to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that happened will be . and i thought , since i &apos;m among friends , i would tell you what i really think . and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s really happening here with these incredible leaps forward , which are so fast that we can barely keep up with .
i &apos;m going to start by showing you a single boring slide for a second .
... if you could just show the slide for a second .
this is a slide i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general shape .
this slide shows you data from an analysis of the risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like some of the others we often arrive at in our field , are kind of on a semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here corresponds to a power in the scale .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange is happening here .
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about .
so , if you could turn on the light again .
a little brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper in a minute .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve where , say , these are the years , so the timeline of a species , and this is any measure of the technology i wanted to represent with a graph , the graph will get silly .
they then look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now if i wanted to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , it would be very irrational on the semi-logarithmic scale , in the form of a flat line .
but when something like this happens , it changes the qualitative circumstances .
so if the transportation technology were going to continue as fast as the microprocessor technology , then we could get in a taxi tomorrow and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
but it &apos;s not so fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale is exponentially increasing every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they &apos;re not going to go forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything will evolve as fast as it is now on forever .
there are two choices .
either it becomes a classic s-curve like this , until something whole new comes along , or this is going to happen .
that &apos;s it , for example .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
is that true , then that means that we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re on this line here , in a transition from the world to a new kind of world .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is this new world going to be good ?
what &apos;s this new state that the world is starting to take on ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle of it .
when i was a kid , there was a future somewhere in the year 2000 , and people often talked about what would happen in 2000 .
now we have a conference where people talk about the future , and you realize the future is still in 2000 .
we &apos;re not going to go further than that .
so in other words , the future has shrunk by a year since i was in the world .
i think the reason for that is that we realize that anything is going on .
the transition happens . we can all feel it .
and we know right now that it just doesn &apos;t make any sense to try to look into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple high degree of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
i want to talk about what that might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do this , i &apos;m going to talk first about a couple of other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because i think to really understand this , we have to go back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that &apos;s what i want to look at on the earth &apos;s scale of life .
i think the big picture makes sense when you divide it into some billions of steps .
so let &apos;s go back , 2.5 billion years . the earth was a big , sterile stone lump with a lot of chemicals on it .
now if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did it .
i also think there are theories that start to understand how everything started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplistic story of what &apos;s going on at that time is that little oil droplet was flipping around , which had different kinds of chemicals in it .
some of these oil droplet contained a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside , and to grow .
all of them were like this started to divide .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form in the sense .
but these oil droplet weren &apos;t about alive today , because each of them was just a small accidental recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread to countless quantities .
so each droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet that had one for growth grew more optimal composition than others , and more and more chemicals from outside and divided up faster .
so these tends to survive longer , and they multiplied at a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but more interesting , when these droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in any way that we don &apos;t quite understand yet , these droplet have learned the ability to write down information .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form that we call dna .
in other words , in this mindless , evolutionary way , they found a way to allow them to sign down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
the amazing thing about this is that this kind of storing information over the course of 2.5 billion years it was born stayed the same .
in fact , the recipe for us , which is our genes , from exactly the same code and the same spelling .
and every being uses the exact same letters and the same code .
we are so far that , just for pleasure , we can write things ourselves in this code .
and i have 100 micrograms of a white pulver that i &apos;m trying to keep in airports of security staff &apos;s attempt .
it &apos;s in it -- what i &apos;ve done is i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 mexico 22 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for anyone in this room and even for anyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had been a selfish in fact , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the sign of dna was an interesting step .
and that &apos;s what these cells did -- that &apos;s what made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened where things became completely different , which is that these cells started communicating and trading information , so that communities emerged from cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the durability grows into antibiotics .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and put that information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because the bacteria communicate with each other .
now this communication allowed communities , in a sense , to be in the same boat ; they were synergetically table .
so they either survived together , or they entered together , which meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were more repeated and preferred by evolution .
the transition site is now where these communities together so close that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a sign chain on the dna .
and the next interesting stage took about another billion years .
at that point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which act together as a single organism .
in fact , we &apos;re also such a multi-cellular community .
we have lots of cells that are no longer put on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities started to evolve , so that the level that evolution was no longer the individual cell , but the whole cell community that we call organism .
the next step has now happened within these communities .
the cell communities started to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to train specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and capturing information .
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at that point , an individual -- learning has now happened within the time of a single organism &apos;s lifespan , rather than through this evolutionary period .
so for example , an organism could learn to eat a particular fruit because it tasted bad and made it sick that last time he ate it .
now this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas hundreds of thousands of years before that , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures weren &apos;t there .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process using these special information structures because evolution could now happen within an individual .
she could happen within a time-learning framework .
what happened then is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
for example , the most subtle of us know about this type of communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
i have a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , and basically giving sound to me , gruesome , hoping to create a rather confused idea in your head that has a certain similarity to my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we make something very complicated into the minds of others .
so this is what it &apos;s allowing us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we actually did , we , humanity , is we started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that several cell organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods of holding data on , presenting .
for example , the invention of language was a small step in that direction .
telephony , computers , video users , cd-roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something that &apos;s much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we have been before .
so today , evolution can happen in the time span of microseconds .
you also saw tys &apos;s little evolutionary example , where he showed some evolution in the convolvation program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve removed the time scales .
the first steps in history i &apos;ve told you took one billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took a few hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take very few decades .
so the process feeds itself , and i think auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosion curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor is doing in the connection machine .
it has billions of them .
what i do instead , and whatever designers do of thinking machines , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , that this machine , and the machine , of course , does something that overgoes our skills better and faster than we could ever do it ourselves .
and it does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even really understand .
one of the ways that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve been using a lot of the time , is evolution itself .
and we install an evolutionary process in this machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can make a program that &apos;s developed from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
now , please perform all of these randomly chosen instructions , perform all of the programs , and then finally choose the ones i &apos;m going to make the next one of my presentations . &quot;
so in other words , i define first what i want .
let &apos;s say i want to make numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve already used for it .
so there are programs that can be the most numbers that can be done .
of course , the chance with randomly chosen instructions is very small that , by chance , they &apos;ll just sort numbers , so probably none of the instructions will actually do this .
but one of them may , if you &apos;re lucky , put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take those 10 percent of the sequences that i &apos;ve made the next thing i &apos;ve made .
store them off , wipe the rest off .
now all the rest of the world are reproductions that have best sorted numbers .
and it &apos;s a recombination technique , analog to reproduction . &quot;
take two programs , and they make kids through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids inherit the features of the subroutines from the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little closer to the preventions than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
you reevaluate them .
lead perhaps some mutations .
and try the whole thing again with another generation .
all of these generations take just a few milliseconds to do .
and so i can run through evolution over millions of years in the computer in a few minutes , or more complicated times , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly sorrow numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
they &apos;re obscure and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know and i &apos;m sure they do the job because they come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that did the job .
because her life depended on whether they did the job right .
i once sat in a 747 with marvin minsky , al he pulled out a map and he says , &quot; oh look . look at that .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of pieces that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t you make it more confident ? &quot;
we know that an developmental process is not optimal when it becomes too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that &apos;s very different from classical engineering .
it allows us to produce things with a much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t quite understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a way , we overwhelm technology .
we &apos;re now using these programs to make computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so it creates a feedback .
it &apos;s getting faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all of these new technologies of today are feeding on themselves .
we &apos;re going to take off .
we got to a point where analog is at the time , as cell organisms evolved into multiple cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoeba , and we can &apos;t quite tell what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition .
but i really think there &apos;s something else coming after us .
i find it very tired to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever &apos;s next .
well , lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here now before i get chosen .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was underneath the starry sky in the desert with sufi singers of mukhtiar ali .
we talked about how nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indians then , we would jump into a car and swirl across the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince had been thirst , he took an arjuna , shot out into the ground and saw water .
now we &apos;re doing this with drillers and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
it made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
i was afraid that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without a camera and without a tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible , not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50 year-old technology became the most magical thing for me .
she became a golden access to a world full of pirates and unfortunate ships and images in my mind .
i felt like we were having our fancy clocks and cameras dream of it .
they kept us inspired by being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use it to allow magic rather than killing it .
at 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a storytelling device that readers can connect around the world .
it can know how to hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings together images and text , and animation , sound and touch .
storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with it ?
i &apos;m just going to go to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name there .
and i become a character in the book .
a letter comes down for me once and again -- and the ipad knows through gps where i live -- it &apos;s addressed to me right now .
the kid in me is really excited about these opportunities .
i talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magicians and dragons , but the magic of childhood , the ideas we all had as children .
i always found very exciting in a glass of fireflies .
so here you have to tip the ipad and let the fireflies out .
and they shine the light through the rest of the book .
another idea that i was fascinated as a child is that a whole galaxy can put in a single marble .
and so every book here , every world , becomes a little marble that i &apos;m going to draw here to the magic device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these cards have been static .
this map grows and glows and serves for orientation in the rest of the book .
it turns out it &apos;s in other places in the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
i think it &apos;s also important for me to create something that &apos;s indian , but it &apos;s also very timely .
these are the apsaras .
we &apos;ve all heard of feen and nymps , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were caught in indras for thousands of years in an old muffed book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary history for children .
a story that &apos;s going on with new issues like the environmental crisis .
in the environmental crisis , a big problem over the last 10 years is that kids are in their rooms , sitting on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our kids into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , you have to go out and collect images of natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , rocks , tiles and shells .
somehow , the kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this is a childhood ritual that &apos;s brought back . you have to go out and take a picture of a flower and tag it in a chapter .
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree inde .
so you &apos;re actually creating a digital collection of photos that you can then put online .
a kid in london shows the picture of a food and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fox today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photos that you actually took .
there are a variety of ways that magic connects the world and technology .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the video of the ipads , and augmented reality you see an animation of elves that appear on a plant in front of the house .
at one point , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we &apos;re all heading towards a world where the natural forces of technology are getting closer , and the magic and technology can approach each other .
we use the sun &apos;s energy .
we bring our kids and us closer to the natural world and the magic , fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time in inquiry , prisons or death cells with people .
i spend most of my time in social building settlements and places where there &apos;s a lot of hope .
being here at ted , seeing and hearing how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of force .
in the short time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things here that have a global impact .
and sometimes when something about ted comes , it gets a meaning and a force that it doesn &apos;t otherwise have .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some amazing presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good things . but you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn this in my work , by the way , as a lawyer .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i grew up in a family , a traditional african-american household dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a keyboard , strong woman , she had an impact .
she had the last word in every family argument .
she was also the starting point of many differences in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
her parents were born a slave in the 1840s in virginia in virginia .
she was born in 1880 , and the experience of slavery shaped her world view very much .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard i could not breathe , then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and she said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my embrace ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again . when i said yes , she left me alone .
she was something that made it to her , that always wanted to be close to her .
the only problem with this was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her ten children .
sometimes when i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get their attention .
my cousins were running around everywhere .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , that i woke up one morning and walked into the living room , all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room staring at me .
first of all , i thought this was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this was 15 or 20 minutes , and then she got up and she came over to me , and she took me over , and she said , &quot; come on , bryan . you and i , we need to talk . &quot;
i remember it was yesterday .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me outside and said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you &apos;re not going to say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promises , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honey ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat down at me and looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know i watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; first of all , you &apos;ll always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you will always take care of them . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , oma , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
then she said , &quot; next thing i &apos;m going to tell you is that you &apos;re going to do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do right .
i thought about it , and i said , &quot; yeah , oma . i promise . &quot;
finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and i said , &quot; yeah , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
i grew up on land in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who is a year old and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , my brother came home one day and brought this sixth-pack beer to my sister and i went to the forest with us .
we were only sildating around there like we used to .
then he took a beat of beer and offered my sister one , and she assumed , and then she offered one to me .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . all right . just do it . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , do it . we do it today , you do everything we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? well , drink something . &quot;
then he looked at me in the face and said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still doing you crazy because of the conversation with grandmother ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; grandma tells all the grandchildren that you &apos;re special . &quot;
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to give you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t do that .
this may be broadcast publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i confess that i &apos;ve never drank a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would say all her grandchildren that they are special .
my grandfather was in prison during the prohibition .
my uncle died of alcohol induced diseases .
and she believed that these were the subjects that we needed to take care of .
i &apos;ve tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prison and in prison .
today there are 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are discharged from currency or with conditional criminal law .
in my opinion , mass incarceration changed our world fundamentally .
in social weak and black parts of the population there are despair and hopelessness because of these changes .
one out of three male black between 18 and 30 is in prison , letting go of currency or conditional punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia to baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black men are either in prison , abandoning currency , or with conditional criminal justice .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with rapid , it &apos;s also challenged by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that treats them much better if they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects outcomes .
yet we seem to be quite happy with this .
a politics of fear and anger convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
my home state of alabama always pulls you the right to vote when you &apos;re sentenced .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population have permanently lost their right to vote .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognizing the civil rights is going to be as high as before the election rights .
the silence is ear anesthetizing .
i represent children .
a lot of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world convicted of three-ten-year-old children to death in prison .
in this country , for children , there are lifelong sentences without conditional punishment .
we &apos;ve already got a lot of procedures going .
the only country in the world .
i represent people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we believe that because we &apos;re taught to die of crimes , the real question is : did a human deserve to die for a crime that he did ?
that &apos;s a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other way of looking at it is not : did anybody deserve death for a crime , but : did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people we executed , one of the people we found for innocent is who was devastated and was released from death row .
an amazing error rate . one out of nine innocent .
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anyone fly an airplane if they were nine planes to pick up , one of them will crash .
but somehow , we can get rid of this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i talk a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we &apos;re right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students afroamerican story . i &apos;m talking about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time against the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of the second world war .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for the african-american in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynch mobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that formed her life .
these older people are coming up to me now and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you talk , you tell people to stop telling us we have to do it for the first time in our nation &apos;s history : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell the people we grew up with . &quot;
and after terrorism , of course , the race and decades of rapid motivated submission and apartheid .
and yet , in our country , there &apos;s a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our history .
and so we don &apos;t really understand what our actions are in the historical context .
we &apos;re constantly bumping each other .
we &apos;re always creating new tensions and conflicts .
we &apos;re having a hard time talking about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people understood that the race is not to overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i &apos;ve given some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you talk like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; there &apos;s no death penalty in germany .
and of course , in germany , she can &apos;t be there anymore . &quot;
there was a silence . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we will ever speak out for systematic killing of people .
it would be conscience to set ourselves up consciously and consciously . &quot;
i thought about it .
what it would feel like to live in a world where the german state let people set up , especially if there were a lot of jews below that were disproportionate .
it would be intolerable .
it would be conscience .
and yet , here in this country , in the ancient south states , we &apos;re targeting people -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted to death , 11 times higher if the victim is white than when the black is black . 22 times higher when the folded black is and the victim knows -- in the same state in which the body is borrowed .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnection .
i think our identity is threatened .
when we don &apos;t deal with it , with these hard issues , the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but finally , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , heritage , boundary .
i think it seems important to me to unite both .
because we &apos;re talking about ultimately that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment , to be in a complex world .
for me , this means taking time to think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that never will be at ted .
but thinking in a way that &apos;s integrated into our own lives .
we all need to believe in the end things we can &apos;t see .
we do . we &apos;re rational as we are , as much as we value intellect .
innovation , creativity , development is not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by the conviction in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection that i think is driving us to be not only open to all the light and all the exciting things , but also to the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great chief politician , once said it .
&quot; when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted everything , but what we needed most was hope to be a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in places that were hopeless and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities also have to engage in it .
there &apos;s no boundary for technology and design that allows us to be fully human as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , border and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it will deeply touch you .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
the woman parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she had two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery bus boycott -- an incredible african-american woman -- and virginia durr , a white one whose husband , cliffdurr , dr. king .
so these women met and just talked .
occasionally , woman carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come in and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yes , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what will you do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so winding .
i was sitting there one day listening to these women , and after a few hours , m.m. parks turned to me and said , &quot; now bryan , tell me what the initiative is for equal right . &quot;
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
i started my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to advance injustice .
wr wants to help people who were convicted of innocent .
we want to fight prebition and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to eliminate life penalty without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about the death penalty .
we want to lower the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and after that , she looked at me and she said , &quot; yum . yum . &quot;
she said , &quot; it &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
then woman carr leaned at me , put a finger on my face , and said , &quot; and so you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and so i think the ted community should be bravers .
we need to find ways to face these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
if somebody takes something they don &apos;t hear , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even if you kill someone , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because that is , there &apos;s a fundamental human dignity that needs to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i think in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i think even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , we &apos;re not measured at the end of our technology , not the things we &apos;re developing , not the intellect and minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but by how they deal with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we &apos;re only beginning to understand the truly amazing things that make us .
sometimes i lose weight , a story finally .
sometimes i push too much .
i &apos;m tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas rush ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard sentences .
i go to the research prison and visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old who &apos;s supposed to be an adult in court .
then i wonder : how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn somebody into something they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as adults , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up too long and thought , my god , if one judge can turn us into something else , he must have forces .
right , bryan , the judge has forces .
you should wish some wishes as well .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think it , i started working on a post .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a mandate .
and i started with this mission , and the headline was , &quot; mission to treat my poor , 14-year-old black clients like a privileged white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my assignment , i explained that misbehavior of the state council and the police and the security errors were about to be considered .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there &apos;s nothing in this country that there &apos;s only misbehavior in this country .
the next morning i woke up , and i didn &apos;t know if i &apos;d just dreamed of this crazy post or actually written it .
and to my defeat , i had not only written him , but sent him to the court as well .
a few months went over , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to court and do this crazy case .
i got in the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , this is going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the stairs to the court .
when i got up the court staircase , there was an elderly black man who was the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and he said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came up to me and hugged me .
then he whispered in my ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
and i have to say , it gave me power .
there was something deeply touched inside of me , identity , the ability of each individual to contribute to a community , to a view of hope .
well , i entered the courtroom .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you hire this crazy contract ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in , just because they were angry .
i &apos;d written these crazy things .
police officers came in and represented state lawyers and office workers .
in the handling around , the courtroom was full of people who were angry that we talked about skin color , we talked about poverty , we talked about inequality .
from my point of view , i saw the janitor go up and down .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabhu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came in with a very concerned facial riot in the courtroom and sat right behind me , almost got to the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge quit a break .
during the break , a police officer came in , which was troubled that the janitor was in the courtroom .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courtroom ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the target from the eyes . don &apos;t give up . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i came to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is farther , but it &apos;s increasing in justice .
that we &apos;re not fully evolved as human beings unless we care about human rights and basic values .
that our entire survival is connected to every single one of us .
that we have to connect our visions of technology and design , entertainment and creativity to humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i want those of you who also see this , just say , don &apos;t lose your goal . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen in this audience , this community , an obvious desire , and you &apos;ve heard about helping them and doing something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , there &apos;s a national decision that &apos;s going to be about actually doing an effort to implement some of the money that otherwise flows to the politics of punishment .
here in california , for example , in the next five years , you &apos;re spending a billion dollars on death penalty . a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all fatalities end up not with an arrest .
56 percent of all rape cases are not in court .
there &apos;s a chance to do something .
this is a talk that &apos;s going to suggest that investing money in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immense .
that fact is often put in context with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you tell someone who believed that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country has not really happened in the class of violent crimes .
it was the misguided cruise against drugs .
that &apos;s why the dramatic high numbers come to prison inmates .
we were tearing down by the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have three-story laws that bring people behind bars forever for a bike theft for the theft of the theft , rather than that you force them to give things back to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who &apos;ve become victims of a offender , not less .
and i think our philosophy of punishment right now doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string vibrate here .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you .
bin laden &apos;s death is an increased risk of driving .
famine in somalia . anchor 3 : police &apos; spray .
four speakers : malignant cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
six : social decline . seven : 65 deaths .
tsunami warning . 9 : cyberattacks .
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . still . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips i collected over the last six months -- it could have been the last six days . or the last six years .
in fact , the media preferences to show us negative subjects because our minds pay attention to these very topics .
and there &apos;s a very good reason for that too .
every second of our senses catch a lot more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we have nothing more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it sorts and cheese all the information in our environment looking for any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old adage &quot; when it bleeds , the demand &quot; is very true .
well , with all our digital devices that let us spend seven days a week on 24 hours a day on all these negative messages , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made is accelerating through a series of forces in the last century , so much that we &apos;re able to create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
well , i &apos;m not saying we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity and water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at overlooking problems in a very long way , but ultimately overcoming them .
let &apos;s see what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so we can anticipate the evolution .
in the last 100 years , average life expectancy has doubled , which has increased to inflation , average income in the world &apos;s population has tripled .
child mortality has reduced by a tenth of a child mortality .
and also , the food , electricity and communication costs have reduced by a lot of times .
steve pinker showed us that we &apos;re living in a very peaceful human history right now .
and charles kenny , according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the last 130 years .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we are increasing our expectations all the time .
in fact , we redefined poverty .
remember that a large percentage of americans living under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , television , mobile phones , air conditioners and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the imperators on earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of many of them is technologies , and they grow expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes an information technology has a huge leap on the curve of moore &apos;s law , and the price performance quotient doubles every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less and is thousands of times faster than a supercomputer in your 70s .
now look at this curve .
that &apos;s moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things in this curve .
first of all , how smooth it is in good times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it doesn &apos;t slow down for any of our big problems .
also , despite their logarithmic process on the left , it &apos;s going up .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to everyone .
cloud computing , something my friends at autodesk call infinite computing , sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow personal production to democratize our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at the risk ?
that was a grandiose .
i once went through the papers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson forces human opponents . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence available to every mobile phone owner .
four years ago , ray kurzweil because i &apos;m starting a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how to use them , to solve the huge challenges of humanity .
and every year we ask the students to create business , products and services that can positively affect the lives of billions of people in a decade .
think about a group of students today being able to influence the lives of billions of people .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculously listening .
today we can point to dozens of companies that have done just that .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; i &apos;m about creating a life of opportunity .
it &apos;s about building out of scarce goods .
scarcity is contextual , and technology is a very liberating force .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon soldiers got silver beorder , napoleon himself got gold beetle .
but the king of siam was given aluminum betah .
aluminum at that time was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and platin .
that &apos;s why the dome of the washington monument was made from aluminum .
although aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t occur as py metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolyzing was developed and made aluminum manufacturing so cheap that we use it with our disposal .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy prone up to the earth &apos;s surface every 88 minutes .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
that year , for the first time , you &apos;ve managed to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar to go down by 50 percent last year .
last month , this published with a study that shows that by the end of this decade , in the sunny areas of the united states , solar energy is going to cost six cents a kwh compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an overload of energy , we &apos;ll also have water in the abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
do you remember when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 when it passed saturn , back towards earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what did it mean ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered in water .
yes , there &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent pass , and we &apos;re fighting about 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
they &apos;re new nanotechnes along the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators at do it yourself , i want to share with you -- he gave me permission -- his technology called the slingshot , which many of you may have heard of . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether it &apos;s saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of that for less than two cents a gallon .
the chairman of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in the developing world .
and if everything is going well , and i &apos;m very confident , then coca-cola is going to apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology innovation that &apos;s available today .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
oh my goodness , we &apos;re about to reach the 70 percent reduction rate from mobile phones in the developing world to the end of 2013 .
just remember that a masai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has better mobile communication than president reagan 25 years ago .
and when you go to google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton did 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in its abundance , as nobody could have predicted .
and it gets even better , the things you and i spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photo , libraries of books and music , technology to medical diagnostics -- are literally becoming dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is probably what we expect in health .
last month i had the pleasure of announcing the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder prize . &quot;
we challenge teams around the world to connect all of these technologies together in a mobile phone to talk to the device because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test cleaners or you can test your blood levels .
and to win , the device has to do better diagnosis than a team of highly skilled doctors .
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health care workers .
when this device sequences a rna- or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls up the health agency and prevents a pandemic from their outbreak .
but now the biggest force that &apos;s going to lead us to a world of abundance .
i call it &quot; the next billion . &quot;
the white lines represent population .
we &apos;ve just passed the seven-billion-dollar tag .
and by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and food in the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds we &apos;ve never heard before will join global communication .
what do these people need ?
what are they going to consume ? what are they going to want ?
and instead of economic standstill , i see one of the greatest economic issues in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier through the use of the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be more productive through the khan academy , and by doing so , they &apos;re going to be able to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
what about a set of new ones , never before , ever heard .
how about taking the oppressed wherever you are and giving a voice to pay attention and create change for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
how about the contributions we can &apos;t even predict ?
one of the things i learned from the x prize is that small teams who are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really excelled me .
there &apos;s a program that some people may know already .
it &apos;s a game called foldon .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to explore how the protein is going to evolve .
depending on his behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this has been a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
and there are hundreds of thousands of people now playing the game online .
and it showed that today , human pattern recognition is better folding the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who was the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , nor a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as a business assistant in a rehab clinic at night , who was the best protein anchor in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , which gives me tremendous confidence in our future , is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the huge challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have a passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of the techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new minds that we can work with online to master the new challenges and do what &apos;s needed to do .
we expect a few extraordinary decades .
thank you .
i think we need to do something about a changing piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in business for a long time enough that i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own wrong prestice to do this .
but before i get to the actual subject of my talk , let &apos;s start with baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season , and we &apos;re moving towards the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
moneyball appears soon , and it &apos;s about statistics and using them to make a great baseball team .
i &apos;m going to relate to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard before .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 if a bat beat 300 .
that means that the player certainly beat three out of 10 .
that &apos;s called beat the ball in the outskirts , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and who tried to throw the ball into first base , didn &apos;t make it in time , and the runner was in safety .
three out of 10 .
do you know what &apos;s called a 3,000 in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe a star star .
do you know what &apos;s called a 4,000-person ?
this is somebody who , by the way , meets four out of 10 .
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player to meet over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s go back to my medical world , where i feel more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable , after i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blind condition , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator , whose average performance is 400 in terms of blind disease .
somehow , it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
if you think about life in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with constigious heart disease vessels , and your doctor outlines it to a cardiologist whose average performance is in vascular performance in 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow , it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
what do you think of as the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday shelter , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is nobody knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
but what we do is we include each of them to send me into the world with the claim to be perfect .
never make a mistake , but nobody cares about the details of how to do that .
and this is the message i took in medical school .
i was a obsessively obsessional student .
in high school , one of the students once said that brian goldmann would learn for a blood test .
and it was .
and i learned in my little dawn at the western residence at the toronto general hospital , not far from here .
i learned everything memorized .
in my anatomy lecture , i learned the origins and runners of every muscle , every branch of any artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnoses .
i even knew the differential diagnosis of classifying renal tubustorre azi can .
and all the time , i collected more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i memorized everything and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , i was as close to complete as possible that i was immune to making errors .
and it worked for a while , until i met a printer .
i resisted at a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman printer to me to the hospital emergency department .
at that point , i was dedicated to the cardiological layer in the cardiology service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency staff was looking for cardiological advice to study the emergency patient .
and to give feedback to my upper doctor .
i studied women , and she was in respiratory .
and when i listened to her , she made keen noises .
and when i listened to her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides that told me they were suffering from congestive heart failure .
this is a state where the heart fails , instead of pumping all the blood continued , some of the blood in the lung turns on , and fills these gradually , so the shorthand came along .
and it wasn &apos;t a difficult diagnosis to do .
i put them on and i took them on treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressures of the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , water tablets , so that they leave the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started feeling better about herself .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent her home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent her home without talking to my supreme doctor .
i didn &apos;t pick up the listener and do what i should have , which would have been a call with my supreme doctor to tell him that he had had a chance to take a picture of his own .
and he knew it , he would have been able to contribute to it .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the helpful doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so able to take responsibility that i was so acting , and so i would be able to care for my patients without having to contact him .
my second mistake was worse .
by doing so , i sent her home , i missed a quiet voice in me trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so wrong with self-confidence that i asked the nurse , who cared about women , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to do well . &quot;
i remember it was yesterday .
so i signed the indulgences and a ambulance and rescue assistants came home and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , i had that nighttime feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my things , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to drive home with the car when i did something i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went home through the emergency department .
and there was another nurse who said , not the sister who had seen after woman , but another three words to me , and these three words fear most of the emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals fear them as well , but emergency medicine is particularly special because we see the patients as volatile .
the three words say , remember ?
&quot; do you remember the patients you sent home ? &quot;
asked the nurse expertly .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular clay .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she arrived at home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency station with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock state .
she was barely breathing , and she was blue .
the emergency staff pulled all the strands .
they gave their blood pressure increase .
they interfered them to the beating machine .
i was shocked and moved into the inner .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because she came to intensive care after the stability , and i hoped she would recover .
and after two , three days , it became clear that she was never going to wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they came to the conclusion .
the other day they got to go -- woman , a woman , a mother and a grandmother .
it &apos;s said that you never forget the names of those who die .
and this was the first time i learned this myself .
the next weeks i made a title , and i learned for the first time the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt alone , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues about it .
you all know the healthy shame , when you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though it swells you on vulnerability and then you get the best friend confronted you with it and my terrible discussion , but when you end up leading you the bad conscience , and you sweat that you never make that mistake again .
if you do review and never do the mistakes again .
that &apos;s the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about is the one who makes you sick in the first place .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but that you &apos;re bad at yourself .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my chief , he was very happy .
he talked to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was shining the vows and making sure i wasn &apos;t sued .
but i kept asking myself about these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the supreme ? why did i send her home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly but surely , it turned out .
i started feeling better .
and then on a cloudy day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i might say , i can feel better again .
and i negotiated that if i doubled my efforts for perfection , and never again made a mistake that the voice could be silent .
and she did .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency ward at a communal hospital north of toronto , and i reviewed a 25-year-old man with mature revenge .
it was a lot of go and i was in a hurry .
he was always showing up here .
i looked into the rake , and it was a little pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him on .
and yet , when he went out of the door , he pointed at his racks .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my boardroom asked me for a conversation to go to her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
&quot; do you remember the patients with the mature rage ? &quot;
it turns out he &apos;s a streptococon infection .
he had a potentially life-dangerous disease called epiglottitis .
you can google this , but it &apos;s not an infection of raking , it &apos;s the upper respiratory path , and it &apos;s causing the breathing path .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenues antibotica , and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , feeling liberated and went to work till it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency class , i overlooked a blind decrease twice .
there &apos;s a lot of stuff about it , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that had only 14 patients a night .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send her home , and there was no man in her treatment either .
one thought i had kidney stones .
i ordered the x-ray of the kidney , and when that was without evidence , my colleague would find a hardening in the lower right sector for the patient &apos;s revision and call the operators .
the other one had a lot of diarrhea .
i ordered fluide to rehydrate him , and i asked my colleagues to also rehydrate him .
and he did , and when he found a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they worked well , they did well .
both cases stopped me , ask me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistakes only happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say is total nonsense .
some of my noises happened in the last five years .
alone , shameful and without support .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t finish up with my mistakes and talk about them , if i can talk about the quiet voice that tells me what really wasn &apos;t going to happen , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach them my mistakes so they don &apos;t do the same thing ?
if i put myself in a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when did you hear the last time from somebody who was talking about failure ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you may hear about any other doctor , but you won &apos;t hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask them their immediate support , and tell them what i just told you , i probably wouldn &apos;t reach the end of the second story before they got really uncomfortable , anybody would take a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew or my colleagues that an orthopedic in my hospital had taken the wrong leg , believe me , i would have trouble looking in the eyes .
that &apos;s the system we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of mistakes .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- those who make mistakes and those who make them -- those who constrain the sleep deprivation and those who constrain them with bad results and good results .
it &apos;s almost an ideological response like antibodies that attack a human being .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we ban those who make mistakes out of medicine , we &apos;re left with a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my about 20 years of medical awareness and journalism , i created a personal medical study on medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for one of my first articles i wrote for the toronto star of my show , white coat , black art .
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inconvenient .
we &apos;re working in a system where mistakes are happening every day , where one out of 10 medications is either a false or false dose , where hospital infections are always getting and getting more and more and more numerous and more devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of conventional errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine actually gets to the number at 100,000 .
both are strong understatements because we don &apos;t look at the problem as well as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
in a hospital system where medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error , so that we can take a perfect disease course for a patient with a chest pain .
then i take the same patient with chest pain , i sweat him and i cheat him and add another slightly alcoholic breath to them , and suddenly the story is displaced with contempt .
i &apos;m not going to take the same course .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i &apos;m not always doing things the same .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this together are inevitable errors .
so if you take the system the way i &apos;ve been taught and take all the missed health experts , at the end of the day , there &apos;s no one left .
and you know the ladders about people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black artartwork , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would be to say to everyone from the rescue assistant to the chief of the cardiologists , &quot; this is my worst mistake , blah , blah , blah , blah , what about your ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show you the microphone to him .
and then their pupils expand , they &apos;ve bumped in front of their head , and then they look down and they swallow , and they start telling their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes that i made . &quot;
what they need is an environment that makes them able to do it .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the redefined doctor is a human being , knows about his humanity , accepts you , is not proud of making mistakes , but puts it all out of you to learn from so that there can be passed .
she shares her experiences with others .
it supports others talking about their mistakes .
and it shows other people their mistakes , not to make sure that they &apos;re in a loving , supportive way , so that they all benefit .
and she works in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that &apos;s the way people make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system develops to make backups , which make it easier to find mistakes that make people inevitable , and also allows lovely to create supportive spaces where anyone who sees the health care can actually address things that are potential errors and is even rewarded for it , and that especially for people like me to make mistakes and be rewarded for gratification of those .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the newly defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human being . i make mistakes .
i &apos;m permanent to that , but i &apos;m best trying to learn from that to pass it on .
i don &apos;t know what you &apos;re holding me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , small idea .
it &apos;s about changing standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories earlier to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , it was here in 1835 .
you may think he was hunting , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very &quot; typical . &quot;
it was a grouper .
up until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
this is a story we &apos;ve heard many times about the galapagos or other places , it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we &apos;re still getting into the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re primal .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to give you another concept that &apos;s changing wavelengths , which is clear .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work later in africa .
i thought i could integrate .
and i got a bad sunburn and i was convinced i didn &apos;t come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms and a few mangroves was surrounded .
there were federal barbs of about 20 centimeters , black mouths , a subset of federal barbs .
the fisheries of this bunk were very productive , and the fishermen lived well from it , and they earned an average amount of good in ghana .
when i went back to that 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they grow up to be five centimeters .
they had been genetically squeezed .
they were still fish .
people were still happy .
and the fish were also fortunate to be there .
so it hasn &apos;t changed anything , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story tells me about my participation in introducing trawling trawling in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- more in the early &apos; 60s -- europe has funded a lot of development projects .
fishing promotion meant countries that started already 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing fishing size of this pretty ugly ship called mutiara 4 .
i went on to this , and we made empiriments all over the south china sea , and especially in javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
i now know it was the bottom of the sea .
90 percent of our starting with was sponges , other animals connected to the bottom .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the wreckage , the wreckage pile , were coral reefs .
basically , the bottom of the ocean came on deck and then thrown back .
these images are extraordinary because the transition is very quick .
within a year , you do a uplift , and then you start with commercial fishing .
the reason is transformed . because , in this case , a hard reason or soft corals , matchief crap becomes .
this is a dead turtle .
they weren &apos;t eaten , they threw them away because they were dead .
once upon a time , we started a living .
she hadn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain is accumulated by fishermen every time they drive into areas that have never been fished .
it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember that .
we adjust our standards to the new level and don &apos;t remind us what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
it changes over time . it changes , because for people , their actions are completely natural .
every generation looks at the images they record at at at the beginning of their conscious lives as standard and will derive everything from that .
the difference is then seen as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a order of change .
and in the end , they just want to get the pathetic remains .
that &apos;s our goal right now , largely .
we want to get things that are gone or things that are no longer the way they were .
now you might think that the problem with people who certainly lived in predatory societies killed animals and became aware of after a few generations of what they had done .
because obviously , an animal that was very common becomes rare first before it dies .
so you don &apos;t often lose animals that are coming .
you always lose rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not seen as a great loss .
over time , we focus on the big animals , and in the sea , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
there &apos;s very little fish left over time , and we think that &apos;s the standard value .
the question is , why do people accept this ?
well , because they don &apos;t know it was once different .
of course , a lot of people , a lot of scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they will confirm it because the evidence , as you did in a previous form , is not as you would like to show the evidence .
there are , for example , the anecdote that the report of a captain who was watching great fish occurrences in this area cannot be used , or fisheries scientists don &apos;t usually get used because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have a situation where people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormously important role of playing a marine protected area .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we &apos;re remaking the past that people can &apos;t understand because the standards have changed and are very low .
so the people who see a marine protected area and benefit from the insight that it allows them to bring back their standards .
what about the people who don &apos;t do that because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think the art and the film can maybe fill in the gap , and simulations .
this is chesapeake bay simulation .
a long time ago , there were gray whales there -- 500 years ago .
and you might remember the color notes and the shading , you know , &quot; avatar . &quot;
when you think of &quot; avatar , &quot; when you think about why people were so touched by it -- except for the pocahoney story , why were you so touched by the image world ?
because it calls something that &apos;s been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only recommendation i &apos;m going to give is on cameron to make it spin &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
in the &apos; 80s , in eastern germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it with the government .
they also had to register a leaf with unprecedented text from this typewriter .
the reason for that is that the government could track where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , they could detect the creator of this thought .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anyone could do this and how much that would restrict freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color printer today in 2011 from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , this page of bright yellow spots on every side , in a pattern that clearly leaves the page back to you and their printer .
this is what &apos;s happening to us today .
and nobody seems to upset about that .
and this was an example in which our own governments are using the technology against us , the citizens .
and this is one of the three main sources of what existing online problems are today .
let &apos;s see what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , here , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiev in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multi-millionaires that have made their money through attacks .
this is wladit tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts .
bjordn sundin .
this is matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they have acquired it illegal using , say , trojans to claim money from our bank accounts while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card details in the back of the keyboard while we &apos;re buying about an infected computer online .
the american intelligence worker two months ago , mr. sam jain &apos;s swiss account , and in this account , 14.9 million dollars were frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free foot , the location is unknown .
and i &apos;m saying today that it &apos;s more likely that we become victims of an online crime than one crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is only going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes will be online .
the second largest group we see today are not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , say , or through your audience .
anonymous groups have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the online attacks field .
so these are the three main groups : criminals who do it for the money , hackers like anonymous who do it , but are the last group of nations , governments who lead the attacks .
we &apos;re left with cases like diginotar .
it shows you an example of what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a full power certificate from the netherlands -- or it was .
last fall , it had to sign in insolation because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the senior of this group to ask if he could make it possible that people had died because of the diginotar hack .
and his answer was &quot; yes . &quot;
now , how do people die in the wake of such a hack ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
well , you need a certificate , if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of their competitors . but these services are especially common in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail because they know that they can trust them more than local providers and encrypted over ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversations .
but you can do it if you &apos;re in a foreign extraterrestrial .
certificate agencies hack and fake certificate .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened in the case of diginotar .
what about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
well , in egypt , the insurgency in april 2011 looted the headquarters of the egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of records .
in these acts , a folder was called a finfisher .
and in that folder , there were notes from a local company that the egyptian government had sold a few programs to which they could catch in very large scale -- any communication of egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program to the egyptian government for 280,000 euros .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so western governments provide totalitarian governments so that they can do it against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strojer found , which was a trojan used by german government officials to occupy their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , pretty much certainly your phone is tapped into .
but today we &apos;re way beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state forces to play their computer with a trojan who allows them to monitor their entire communication , listen to their online discussions , collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about these things , the obvious response to people would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry !
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and this argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy must have been given .
privacy is not a debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
and while we like to trust our governments in 2011 , every right we give away is forever .
and do we trust that we blindly trust every future government , a government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions we have to deal with over the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 and came up with a simple idea : module from cement with solid measures that fit together .
concrete building blocks became very quickly the world &apos;s most used building unit .
they put us in place to build things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it was called the automatically bonding stone .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s been estimated that over 400 billion rocks were produced -- 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for all of you .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , at the bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a small plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , interconnected building blocks to a world where everything was going to be interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a big difference : the transistor was only for experts .
personally , i don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started developing littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have specific function .
they &apos;re preferred to be light , sound , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
that &apos;s how you can &apos;t put them wrong .
the stones are colored .
green is issue , blue is power , pink is input , orange is cable .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green one , and you can build a larger cycle very quickly .
they add a blue to a green one , and they can make light .
you can put in a switch in between , and so you &apos;ve created a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put a pulse array , which is here , and they made a little blind .
add this buzzer to it for an extra effect , and they &apos;ve made a noisy machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to program , wire or delete , littlebits allow them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to speed up or slow the blind , just turn it on this button , and it makes the momentum faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
we want to put every single interaction in the world into a useful rock .
lights , notes , solar panels , motors -- everything should be available .
we have distributed littlebits to kids , and you see them playing with them .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics that you surround in your everyday life and that you don &apos;t learn in school ?
how an ipod works , for example , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so for example , we had no experience for designers with electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filts , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we risd littlebits , and we gave them a few designers who had no technical experience -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
here &apos;s an example of a project they did , a movable confetti cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a play-dough hummer who &apos;s afraid in darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available to all of them .
so littlebits are open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design papers and make them yourself .
we want the world of creators , the inventor , who encourages contributors , because this world in which we live , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , pull it off and start inventing it .
thank you .
