you know , one of the great reasons in traveling and one of the joys in ethnography is to live with the people who still remember the old days . who still feel their past in the wind , touch it on the rain , taste it in the bitter leaves of plants .
just knowing that jaguar shame still travels beyond the milky way , or the meaning of the myths of the oldest of the inuit , or that in the himalayas , the buddhist still pursues the breath of the dharma , means to call the central revelation of anthropology into memory , that &apos;s the idea that the world in which we live , not in an absolute sense , but as a model of reality , as a result of a certain set of adaptations that are wasting our minds , in the same way , many generations .
and of course , we all share the same adaptability .
we &apos;re all born . we bring children to the world .
we go through initiation rituals .
we need to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so we shouldn &apos;t surprise ourselves that we all sing , dancing and art .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique pitch of the song , the rhythm of the dance in every culture .
and it doesn &apos;t matter whether it &apos;s the penan in the forests of borneo , or the voodoo akolyths in haiti , or the warriors in the caisut-desert of northern kenya , the cures in the anden , or a caravan in the middle of the sahara . this is what happens to be the colleague i went to the desert a month ago , or even a yaker shepherd hanging on the qomaeda desert , everest , the mother of the world .
all of these people teach us that there are other ways of thinking , other ways of orienting the earth .
and that &apos;s an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
together , the world &apos;s countless cultures form a web of spiritual and cultural life that surrounds the earth and is as important for the sake of the earth as the biological web that you know as a biosphere .
you can think of this cultural web as an ethnosphere , and ethnosphere can be defined as the sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths , ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been defined by the human imagination since the beginning of consciousness .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
it &apos;s the symbol of all the things we are and what we are capable of as an amazing white species .
and just like the biosphere was rejected very much , it happened with the ethnosphere -- only at even greater speed .
no biologist , for example , would argue that 50 percent or more of all species are about to extinct because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the field of biodiversity -- is barely what we know as optimistic scenarium in the field of cultural diversity .
and the key indicator of this is the extinction of languages .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were talked on earth .
now a language is not just the vocabulary or a series of grammar creatures .
a language is expression of the human mind .
it &apos;s a means where the soul of a certain culture finds access to the material world .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
and of these 6,000 languages , as we sit here in monterey , half of them are no longer whispered into the ears of children .
they &apos;re not taught anymore to children , which means that if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead already .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by silence , one of the last people to be your language , no way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect children ?
and yet , this terrible destiny actually happens to someone on earth for about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly person dies and takes the last syllable of an old language to the grave .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place if we all talked just one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let &apos;s be yoruba . let &apos;s be cantonian .
let &apos;s be willii . &quot;
and then suddenly you would realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
so today i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try to understand what &apos;s actually been lost .
now there are some of us who kind of forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i mean really different possibilities of being .
for example , take this child of barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of anakonda , believe that they came up mythologically with the milk flow from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
this is a people who don &apos;t cognitively distinguish between the colors of blue and green because the sky is equated to the forest that people depend on .
they have a strange language and a marriage rule called the linguistic exogamy : you have to marry somebody who talks a different language .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses , where , because of the misboats , six or seven languages , you &apos;re never hearing anyone who learns a language .
you just listen and then start talking .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who was first contacted peaceful in 1958 .
in 1957 , five missionary were trying to connect and made a severe mistake .
they threw shiny pictures of themselves out of the air , which we would rate as friendly gestures , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
they raised these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the figure , nothing , and concluded that this was business cards of the devil , and they killed the five missionary with the spear .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill outsiders with the spear .
they drilled through each other .
54 percent of the deaths were shot through drilling .
we followed geneaology eight generations and found two cases of natural death , and when we asked people about it a little bit , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we still killed him with the spear .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
their hunters could smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away and determine what kind of animal this one was .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalier and clay macoutes , and the poison that was used to make zombies safe .
to make sense of that conversation , of course , i had to know a little about this remarkable belief in the voodoo and voodoo is not a cult of the black magic .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view of the world .
it &apos;s interesting .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism or whatever .
a continent is always left out , because the guess was that in sub-saharan africa there is no religious faith . of course , there was one , and voodoo is just the remaining of these very profound religious thoughts that came over during the tragic diaspora of slavery .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this vibrant relationship between the living and the dead .
the living gave birth to the spirits .
the spirits can be complained by under the great water , answers to the rhythm of dance , to deny the soul of the living temporary , so that the akolyth for a short shiny moment becomes the god .
this is what the voodoodoists like to say , &quot; you know , you go to church and you talk about god .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken by the mind . how can you be harmed ?
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo akolyths in a tranceconditions that includes glowing coal without burn , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body so that it stops when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
well , of all the people i &apos;ve met , the willii was from the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , the most extraordinary .
offspring of the old tyrannian civilization populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of conquest , this people moved back to an isolated volcanic massive that rises above the caribbean coastal plain .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only ones that were never conquered by the spain .
to this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the priesthood education is very extraordinary .
the young akolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of eclipse , in stone huts at the fuge of the glaciers for 18 years , and two periods of each nine years are selected , intentionally , to mimic the nine months of pregnancy they spent in their slight mother &apos;s lap , they &apos;re now spending metamorphic in the lap of the great mother .
and all the time , they &apos;re culturally introduced to the values of their society . values that say that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- are sustaining balance .
at the end of this amazing initiation , they &apos;re suddenly taken out one day and for the first time in their lives , at the age of 18 , they see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness , when the sun starts to shine on the hangs of the amazing beautiful landscape , suddenly everything they learned in the abstract is amazing practice . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; see ? it &apos;s really , how i told you .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
they call themselves the older brothers and say that we &apos;re responsible for the younger brothers for destroying the world .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
whenever we think about native and landscape , we either complain rousseau and the old scaffolding of the noble wild , which is a racial thought or , on the other hand , thoreau and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
so , infants are not sentimental , nor are they chosen by nostalgia .
there &apos;s not a lot of space left in the malaria swells of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth that &apos;s not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a much more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist because it &apos;s breathed into the human mind .
well , what does that mean ?
it means that a little kid from the anden growing up in the belief that the mountain is an apu spirit that determines his or her destiny will become a very different person , and have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little kid from montana , who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a bunch of rocks that can be rejected .
whether it &apos;s a place of a mind or a bunch of heritage , it &apos;s irrelevant .
what &apos;s interesting is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the nature .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia and believed that these forests were there to be lied .
that made me another person than my friends under the kwakiutl who believe that these forests were the uprising place of hukuk and the commanded celestial beak and the cannibalism spirits who live in the northerners of the world , spirits who would participate in their hamatsa-initiation .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
it &apos;s a picture i just took last april in the northwest of the amazon .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of shame .
what ayahuasca makes so fascinating is not just the pharmacological potential of this preparate , but the processing potential . it &apos;s really made from two different sources . on the one hand , there &apos;s this wooden liane , which is a series of betacarbonins , harmin , harmolin , slightly hallucinogen , and this climbing plant alone is like a blue smoke is based on her consciousness , but it &apos;s put on the leaves of the family of the coffee called the psychria .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimeyltryptamin five and methoxydimethanylacine .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanomomi sniff this stuff , this substance that they make from different species contains methoxydimethanyltamin .
sniff this powder is something like being shot out of a gun run , sent by baroque paintings and the landing on a sea of electricity .
it &apos;s not produced as a distortion of reality , but as a resolution of reality .
i even had a professor , richard evan shultes , the man who introduced the psychedelic erea to discover the magic mushrooms in mexico in the 30s , discusses it . i &apos;m saying that you couldn &apos;t put these tryptamins in as a hallucination , because the moment you feel the effects , you &apos;re not there to experience a hallucination .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken into hymn because , of course , they &apos;re denatured by a human gut called monoamin oxidase .
they can only be associated with some other chemicals that are hymn , which are the mao denatrics .
now what &apos;s fascinating is that the tacaroline that are in the liane are mao-inhibitors of exactly the way that it &apos;s necessary to power the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinous plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , if they combined that way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is larger than the sum of its parts ?
we use this great euphemism , try and error that turns out to be meaningless .
but you ask the indians , &quot; the plant is talking to us . &quot;
so , what does that mean ?
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 variants in ayahuasca that all of you recognize at a distance in the forest that seem to be a species for our eyes .
and then they ask them how to do their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you understand something about plants .
i mean , do you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
so , it turns out you take each of the 17 variants at full moon and you sing them to you in a different pitch .
well , this doesn &apos;t get you a harvard ph.d. , but it &apos;s much more interesting to count than tribal .
well , the problem with this is that even those of us who have the sympathy for the difficult situation of innate , they think of them as orginian and colorful , but they somehow limit to the past , as the real world , that is our world .
so , the fact is that in the 20th century , in 300 years , you will remember not for your wars or technological innovation , but rather than an era we were in and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted . so the problem is not the change .
all cultures have been involved in the dance of new life opportunities .
and the problem is not technology itself .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen to sioux when they were arc and arrow tasks when americans stopped being americans when they were chasing horse and horse cars .
not change and technology threatens the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . ugly face of rule .
and wherever you look around the world , you &apos;ll discover that these cultures are not denied to the bottom of the country , and these are dynamically living people whose existence is displaced by cognitive forces that go beyond their capacity of adaptation , whether it &apos;s the immense deforestation in the home of penan , a nomatode people from southeast asia , from sarawak , a people who lived free of a generation in front of the forest , and now to knees and prostitution on the urer river , where they can see that it &apos;s been removed by the river , where they &apos;re ready to see that they have their own trees in the sea , or the south sea floor .
or when we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnocicide , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyles , is not only convicted , but generally and divergence as part of a development strategy .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibetans if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom .
i once traveled to lhasa with a young colleague 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china through southeast tibet , and only when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear . 6,000 holy monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes , 1.2 million people who were murdered by the cultural revolution .
the father of this young man was identified as a follower of the panel lama .
that meant that he was killed immediately during the chinese invasion .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with their sacredness , which brought people to nepal .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for crimes .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rock summit because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
the sister who gave this brave act was brought into an education camp .
one day she came out of a armband maos , and for this overlap , she had to go into a heavy labor camp for seven years .
tibets can be inadequate , but the reducing spirit of people is something unforgettable .
and at the end of the day , we &apos;re really faced with a choice . do we want to live in a monotonous world or a polyglian world of diversity ?
margaret mead , the great anthropologist said before she died , is that as we move towards a thread , windowless , generic view , we would see not just the entire range of human imagination reduced in an enveloped way , but that one day we woke up from a dream and forgot that there were other possibilities .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that our species has existed maybe for 600,000 years .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and sheltered us at that moment the cult of the seed , the poetry of the shame through the prose of priethood and hierarchy , specialization and overload -- only 10,000 years ago .
the modern industrial world as we know it is barely 300 years old .
well , this superficial story doesn &apos;t tell me we have all the answers to the challenges we face in the next millennia .
when we ask these countless world cultures about the meaning of humanity , they answer 10,000 different voices .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the ability to be what we are : people with full consciousness who are aware of the importance that all humans and gardens need to be able to thrive a space . and there are great moments of optimism .
here &apos;s a picture i took at the northern end of the baffin islands when i went to narwhal-hunt with inuits . and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
the canadian government hasn &apos;t always gone very well with the inuit and during the 50th years in the establishment of our rule , they were forced to move in settlements .
the grandfather of this old man refused .
the family who was afraid of his life took him all the weapons and all the tools .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it to be their advantage .
the tracks of their slits were originally made out of fish that were wrapped in caribbean skin .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the waving storm .
he hatched out , let his pants go of sea fur and defeated his hand , and when the feces started freezing , he shaped them into the shape of a knife .
he sprayed memory on the sides of the color knife , and when it was completely frozen , he amazes a dog .
he contains the dog , and he improvised a dishes , took the dog skeleton and improvised a sled , put another dog on and turnarose across the ice sheets with the threatening knife on the belt .
so you can do something out of nothing .
and this is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the infants in the world .
the canadian government gave the inuit back in april 1999 all the control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
it &apos;s our new home country called nunavut .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all the minerals .
an amazing example of how a nation , a state that can look for and reach with its inhabitants .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who &apos;ve traveled to these distant goals on earth , to realize that they haven &apos;t removed at all .
they &apos;re somebody &apos;s home countries .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in past times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is we think politicians never do anything .
we think polemics -- we think polemics are not persuasive , but we think storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website gets 35 million great ones every month .
156 nations send our channel to television .
our magazines are read by millions .
and we do a series of trips into the ethnosphere where we take our audience to places like such cultural wonders that you will find a life in a really multicultural world where , hopefully , one after another , you will assume the central revelation of anthropology : that this world deserved to exist in different ways that we can find a life possibility in a really multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
thank you .
what i &apos;m going to show you first , as fast as possible , is the fundamental work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given to microsoft as part of a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where you can either avoid local or removed from huge amounts of visual data .
we see many , many gigabytes of digital photos here that you can bring seamlessly and continue to catch , turn , in any way , rearrange .
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are or how big the images are .
most of you are digital photos of a camera , but this is a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a field of 300 megapixies .
it doesn &apos;t matter , because the only thing that a system can do like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any given moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
this is bleak house of thickens . every column is a chapter .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text , not a picture , we can do something like this , to really show that this is a real representation of texts , not a picture .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
and that really gives them the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium of several scales .
we also did something in the corner of this particular issue of the guardian .
we designed a false ad with very high resolution that &apos;s much higher than a normal ad , and we added additional content .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
and this really captures these ideas of creating these limitations to the place on the screen .
we hope that this means no longer pop-ups and other nonsense -- this shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend much time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to be contributing to this area as well .
but these are all the streets in the u.s. .
overlay on top of nasa &apos;s urgent picture .
let &apos;s get something else out of it now .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can look at it .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snacell , a university student in washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research , a very good collaboration .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
you can see this if we can create these kinds of views where we can go through images and have this experience of a multi-fold resolution .
but the spatial order of images is actually important here .
the computer vision-algorithms have held these pictures together so that they can hold them to the real space where these images , all of which are taken near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies . you can see here the elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things have all been put together in relation space .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
there are those who are much more spatial .
i &apos;d like to just show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we first worked on in summer to show you what i think is really the punchline behind this technology , photosynths technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious if you look at the environments that we have on the website .
we had to worry about lawyers and so on .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame who accomplished just in the computer with pictures of flickr , just give in notre dame in flickr , and you &apos;ll get images of men in t-shirts and on the university site and so on . each of these orange cone represents a picture that was discovered as hearing to this model .
so these are all flickr pictures , and they &apos;re all in this way in relation to each other .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
you know , i never believed i was going to work at microsoft .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
i suspect you can see that these are a lot of different kinds of cameras : all about this is to have a cell phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of you all flipped together in this environment .
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
many of you are covered by faces and so on .
somewhere here , they &apos;re a series of photographs -- here they are .
this is actually a poster by notre dame , who was recorded properly .
we can change from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now getting data collected by all the collective stores of what , visually the earth looks like -- and everything &apos;s being connected .
all of these photos are connected together , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
you get a model that comes out of all of the earth .
think of this as the sequel of stephen lawler &apos;s work on virtual earth .
and this is something that grows through the complexity that people use , and its use for the user , is getting bigger and bigger for the user .
their own photos are going to be signed with metadata that another person gave in .
if somebody has taken the trouble and labeled all these saints and shared who they are , my photograph is taken by the notre dam cathedral suddenly enriched with all this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverses that use photos of other people and take a kind of overwhelming model of social experience using other providers .
and of course , byproduct of all of this is the immense virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that have not only been preserved by overflipping or satellite images and so on , but by collective storage .
thank you .
do i understand them right ? their software allows that within a certain time , within the next few years , all the images that are used by somebody in the world are basically connected to each other ?
yeah . it does nothing but discovery .
if you want to , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of semantic information that many of these images have .
how if you do a web search for images where you type in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what image is .
but what if the picture connects you to all your images ?
then the amount of semantic cross-section connection and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heartwishes .
thank you very much .
i &apos;m going to tell you a few things from my book that , i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve heard , and i &apos;m going to try to create some connections if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
i want to start with what i call official dogma .
the official dogma of what ?
the official belief set of all western industrialized societies .
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize the common well-being of our citizens , it &apos;s especially through maximizing the freedom of the individual .
the reason for that is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , an intangible assumption for human beings .
if people have freedom , each of us is about doing the things that maximize our public good and nobody has to decide for us .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more common they have .
this is , i think , so deeply anchored in our water supply that nobody would ever mind .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what gives us modern progress .
this is my supermarket . this is not a big one .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 extra olive blocks and 12 balsamico-essig that you could buy to make a large number of your own salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 is right in the store for you .
so this is what the supermarket is like .
and then you go to the consumer electronics store to put together a stereo system -- speakers , cd players , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo .
we can put 6.5 million different stereo plants together from the components that are offered in this one business .
you have to admit that this is a big selection .
in other areas , the world of communication .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone provider you wanted to as long as he came from ma bell .
they rented their phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
one consequence was that the phone was never broken .
these days are over .
we now have almost an infinite choice of phones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
my favorite one is the middle -- mp3 playwright , wet hairie trimmer and crd me brée faccles .
and if you haven &apos;t seen that in your business yet , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be coming soon .
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
now do you know what the answer to that question is ?
the answer is no .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a cell phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you what to do .
instead , go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a , or we could do b .
a has these benefits and risks .
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
the doctor says a has these benefits and risks , and b has these benefits and risks .
what do you want to do ?
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
the result is -- we call it patient autonomy . that sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in responsibility for making decisions from somebody who knows something -- namely the doctor -- to somebody who doesn &apos;t know anything and is highly ill , and therefore not to make a decision in the best constitution -- namely the patient .
there &apos;s a huge marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , makes no sense at all because we don &apos;t buy it .
why are they advertising around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask them to change the prescription .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of choice as to how this slide should show .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
and we invent ourselves as often as we want .
that means every day , when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one and they got married as fast as they could , and then got children as fast as they could .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did after that .
today , everything is easy to have .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re busy with other things , they &apos;re asking themselves , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
should i marry later ? should i have children , or should i have career ? &quot;
they &apos;re all engaging questions .
and you &apos;ll answer these questions no matter whether this means doing all the tasks i &apos;m telling you to do , not get a good note in my course .
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
work -- we &apos;re blessed by how carl illustrated , the technology that allows us to work every minute from every place on the planet -- except for the randolph hotel .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , where the wirelesslan works .
i &apos;m not going to tell you because i want to use it .
so what it means to make this incredible freedom of choice in terms of work , again and again and again , whether we should work or not .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry to other hips , and our laptop probably on our lap .
and even though you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we look at our child mutilating a football game , we wonder , &quot; should i take this call ?
should i answer that email ? should i write that letter ? &quot;
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it certainly will be very different to your child &apos;s football game .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a matter of choice .
and the world we lived in looked like this .
so i mean , there were some choices , but not all of it was a question of choice .
and the world we live in now looks like this .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
the answer is yes .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to get bad at it .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it paralyzes paralysis instead of liberating .
with so many options you can choose , it &apos;s very difficult to decide at all .
i &apos;m going to give you another dramatic example of this , a study of investment in volunteer aging .
a colleague of mine had access to investment records from vanguard , the giant fondsociety of about a million collaborators and about 2,000 different jobs .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer offered took the participation by two percent .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees participate than if it just offered five . why ?
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund that &apos;s on the selection , it &apos;s so hard to decide what to choose to push it up in tomorrow .
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes .
understand that not only does that mean that people have to eat dog food when they go to retirement because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it also means making decisions so hard to miss large investment offers from their employers .
by not participation , they give up to 5,000 dollars a year from the employer who would have been happy to replicate their contributions .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or the wrong salatdressing .
so that &apos;s the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome paralysis and make a decision , we end up with less satisfaction with the result of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
and there are several reasons for this .
one of them is , by selecting different salatdressings , when you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made another decision that would have been better . and what happens is this imagery leads to you regret the decision , and this regret works negative to the happiness you made of your decision , even though it was a good decision .
the more ways that there are , the easier it is not to regret at all , that is disappointing to the election you make .
secondly , what economists call oppertunitation costs .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much the way we rate things depends on what we compare it to .
well , if there are many alternatives to remember , it &apos;s easy to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you exclude , that makes you less satisfied with the alternatives you &apos;ve chosen .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
here &apos;s a few on the hamptons .
very expensive real estate .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
and he spends two weeks of the thought that he missed the possibility of having a great parking lot overday .
oppertunation costs are down the happiness we get through our choice , even though what we &apos;ve chosen is fantastic .
and the more opportunities there are to choose , the more attractive properties of that selection are considered into the oppertunation cost .
here &apos;s another example .
well , this cartoon makes some statements .
he makes a statement about living in now , and maybe also trying to do things slowly .
but a very important point that he makes is always who you choose to do for one thing , you don &apos;t choose to do other things .
and these other things may have many attractive properties , and it will make what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
third , escalation of expectations .
that hit me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
and there was a time when there was only jeans of a way , and they bought them , and they mismatched them , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they had carried long enough , and they washed enough , they started feeling &quot; ok . &quot;
so to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old gene , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have some jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , slightly obvious or vast ?
do you want to wash buttons or fun ? stone or acid ?
do you want to make jeans with holes ?
do you want to cut far down , keen , blah blah blah ... &quot; and so on he told .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like the way that used to be the only way . &quot;
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying to try all these damn jeans , and i had the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passenger jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
i had better . all these choices allowed me to have better .
but i felt worse .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try to explain it to myself .
the reason i felt worse was because of all these possibilities available , my expectations for what a good couple of jeans was going up .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when it was only in a way .
when they came to 100 species , one of them should have been perfect .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
adding possibilities to people &apos;s lives inevitably increases people &apos;s expectations about how well these will be .
and this leads to less happiness with the results , even though the results are good .
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because if they did , they all don &apos;t know what this is all about .
the truth is more like this .
the reason that it used to be better than anything worse was when everything worse was it was possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise .
today , in the world we live in -- we have wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can ever hope for is things are as good as you would expect them to be .
they &apos;ll never be pleasant because their expectations , my expectations , are homework high .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what they all came to -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
i couldn &apos;t have done it better . i didn &apos;t leave myself down .
but abandoning is not always such a bad thing .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jeans if there &apos;s only one way to buy them is that if they &apos;re unsatisfied , and they wonder why , you know , who &apos;s responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you do ?
when hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who &apos;s responsible ?
it &apos;s as clear that the answer to the question is , it .
they could have done better .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
and so when people make decisions , and even though the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
i think a significant one -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced who are disappointing because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain these experiences , they think it would be their fault .
and so the visual result is that we &apos;re doing better generally , objective , and we &apos;re feeling worse .
so let me remind you .
this is the official dogma , which is one we all think is right , is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
there &apos;s no question that something better than none , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choices are better than that .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
i &apos;m pretty sure we missed that dot long at which choice improves our public good .
now , as a rule of question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a rule of question about thinking about the thing , what all these choices allow in the industrialized societies is wealth .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about many of them whose problem is not too big choice .
your problem is that you have too little .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry is that steve levitt told you yesterday about how these expensive and difficult car seats don &apos;t help install . it &apos;s a waste of money .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy they don &apos;t help .
they even hurt .
they make us worse at standing there .
if something that allows people in our society to make decisions like this to the societies in which people have shifted too little , would not only improve people &apos;s lives , but our dignity would also be improved .
economists call this a pareto improvement application .
income distribution will make sure that everybody &apos;s better -- not just the poor -- because all these big choices are plaining us .
finally , read this cartoon , and , a sophisticated person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
you don &apos;t know it in this goldfish glass . &quot;
impaired imagination , a short-term view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i read it first .
but the more i thought about it , the more i got to the view that the fish knows something .
because the truth is , if you break the gold fish glass , so that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
if you break the gold glass so that everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they increase paralysis and they reduce happiness .
everybody needs a gold glass .
this is almost limited to complete security -- maybe for fish , definitely for us .
but being abhandicative of a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and i suspect disaster .
thank you very much .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before about the human genome and what that could mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
in fact , let &apos;s start from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code to a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask important questions .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand and do this at different levels .
we tried to simplify it to the minimum components .
we digitized almost 20 years , and when we sequenced the human genome , it was changing from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma mental talium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we tried to see if we could do this with an even smaller genome .
we &apos;ve managed to deny about a hundred genes from the 500 or something that &apos;s here .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple compared to ours , trust me , that &apos;s simple , but if we all look at these genes that we can eliminate one after another , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to one living cell .
so we decided that it &apos;s the only way forward to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to vary the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
and so we started asking the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
does the chemistry allow these really big molecules to be made before ?
and if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
a chromosome is so much a piece of informed chemical material , by the way .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
our ability to write genetic code has evolved very slowly , but still increased , and our last point would now put on an exponential curve .
we started 15 years ago .
it took actually a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more mistakes happen .
so we had to develop a new way that we could put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
this was our first attempt , starting with digital information , the genome of phi x 174 .
it &apos;s a small virus that kills bacteria .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
the exciting stage came when we took this piece of informed chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
the viral particles then were released from the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
recently , i talked to the oil industry , and they said they wanted to understand this model exactly .
they laughed more than she does here .
so we think that this is a situation in software that can actually build your hardware in a biological system .
but we wanted to go much further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome . it has over 580,000 letters of genetic code , so we thought we could vary it in cassette tapes the size of the virus to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information really has to be flawed .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was in a mistake per 10,000 base pair .
we found 30 mistakes at the resort . if we had used the original sequence , it would have never been possible to go up .
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units so that they fit together .
we have unique elements built in here .
you may have heard we built watermarks .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
triplets of these letters -- these letters encode about 20 amino acids , and here &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
at first we signed only .
some people were disappointed that it was not poetry .
we built the pieces so that we could just disseminate them with enzymes , there are enzymes that repair them and reassemble them .
and we started creating pieces , starting with pieces that contain five to seven thousand letters , added them to each other to make 24,000-letter pieces to reassemble them , to 72,000 .
every step we produced these pieces in the overload so we could sequence them , because we were trying to create a very robust process of what they &apos;re going to see in a minute .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
when we get to these really big pieces -- with over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow into e. coli . it &apos;s going to increase all the possibilities of modern molecular biology . and so we turned to other mechanisms .
we knew about a homologist recombination mechanism called the homologist , which uses biology to repair dna that can assemble these pieces .
here &apos;s an example of it . there &apos;s an organism called deinococccccccus radiodurans , which is three million rads of radiation .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
12 to 24 hours later , everything fused together again as it was .
we have thousands of organisms that can do this .
these organisms can be completely dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist in space and move looking for aquatic conditions .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
here &apos;s a perceived of the molecule that we made using these processes -- in fact , we used only hefu mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we adapted them , and then they automatically add them together .
this is not an electron microscope , it &apos;s a regular microscope .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see it with the light microscope .
this is footage over a last six seconds .
this is the publication we just recently finished .
these are over 580,000 letters in genetic code , and it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure ever created by humans .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
if we printed it with a writing size of 10 and without distances , it would include 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus , it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
it &apos;s as easy if you do it in eukaryonts as we are : you just take out the nucleus and you put another in , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about cloning .
archaebacteria is integrating the chromosome into the cell , but just recently we &apos;ve shown that you can take a complete transplant from one chromosome to another and activate it .
we cleaned the chromosome of a microbe species . roughly speaking , these two are as far apart as humans and mice . we gave some extra genes to choose that chromosome . we deconstructed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins . and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to estimate our very mature graphs here .
the new chromosome went into the cell .
in fact , we thought that was the end , but we tried to get the process a little further .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome or a third of somewhere , adding thousands of characteristics every time in just one second to one species .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s going to change at a time have missed a lot of biology .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that are actually digest dna .
the chromosome that was in the cell doesn &apos;t have any ; the chromosomes we put in .
it was expressed in the cell , and it realized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so at the end we had just one cell with a new chromosome .
it was colored blue because of the genes we had added .
and after a very short time , it had lost all the characteristics of species and converted completely into a new species based on the new software we put into the cell .
all the proteins changed -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by changing software dna , change things quite dramatically .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
and i &apos;ve argued that we might be creating a new form of cambrian explosion where there could be massive new species education based on this digital design .
why should we do that ?
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
we &apos;ve grown from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
today , three people on the planet are on the planet for each of whom existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it &apos;s going to be four .
we have problems with food , fresh and clean water , medicine , 6.5 billion people fuel .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer that to nine .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30 to plus billions of barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
when we think about biological processes or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that lands in the atmosphere .
we now have , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
we &apos;re primarily pushing the limits of biological reality and the limits of our imagination .
we have technologies today because of these quick syntheseways to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
we now have the ability to build a big robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
if you can imagine making these 20 million different genes or optimizing these processes to make octanium or drugs new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
and it &apos;s just times selection . we can select for life &apos;s ability to make chemicals or fuel production and so on .
this is a shot of real design software that we &apos;re working with that you actually sit down with and design new species on the computer .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like , we know exactly what their genetic code &apos;s going to look like .
we &apos;re now focusing on fuels of the fourth generation .
you &apos;ve recently seen corn on ethanol , which is just a bad experiment .
we have fuels of second and third generation that will come out relatively soon that will have much higher sugar scores , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
but as we think , the only way biology will have a big impact without any more increase in food or limitation of what it is when we see co2 as a starting material , and that &apos;s why we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first ones with fuels of the fourth generation , and that &apos;s about 18 months from now .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all kinds of different ways .
this is an organism we described in 1996 .
it lives in the deep sea , about a year and a half deep , in almost cooking water temperatures .
it converts co2 into methane , using hydrogen as a source of energy .
we &apos;re studying whether we can use stored co2 that could be easily brought to production stores , converting co2 into fuel to drive this process .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions in life .
you know , we really have -- moderate goals like replacing the entire petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? become a source of energy .
but that &apos;s how we &apos;re working on using the same approaches to developing vaccines .
you &apos;ve seen it with flu this year , we &apos;re always a year behind , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
i think that can be changed by creating recombined vaccines in advance .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , today the evolutionary tree can be accelerated with synthetic bacteria , archaeas , and maybe eukaryonts .
we &apos;re light years from improving people , and our goal is that we have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
and i promised to come back to tell you how the machine works .
so it &apos;s here . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the biggest scientific experiment ever addressed -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe -- and that &apos;s up to 600 million times within a second .
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
this is the machine below geneva .
we take pictures of these mini-big bangs and detectors .
i &apos;m working on this . he &apos;s called the atlas detector -- 44 meters in the width , 22 meters in diameter .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in construction so you can see the scale .
on september 10 , last year , the machine was first .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
it caused huge juts in the control room .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle to put the entire distance around the lhc , then gradually collide with some of the lhc to make a rain of particles collide on the detector .
in other words , when we saw this picture on september 10 , we knew the machine works , which is a big triumph .
i don &apos;t know if this created the greatest july , or this , when somebody went to google page and found the front page like this .
it means that we &apos;re reaching a cultural impact next to the scientific world .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
these wires lead 13-thousand ampisses when the machine is running to power .
well , the engineers among you will look at them and say , &quot; no , they don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
they can do this because if you cool them down very far , they become what they call superconductors .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can keep the tension .
in one of the connections , between nine thousand magnets at the lhc , there was a manuscript .
so the wires heat slightly upside down and 13-thousand ampiss suddenly encountered electrical resistance .
this was the result .
well , all of this is even more impressive if you can imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and move around about 30 inches .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
and they had to remove what we did .
we reconditioned them , repaired them .
you &apos;re all back on your way now .
by the end of march , the lhc will be again functional .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to be able to collect first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
well , of course , in a way , accidents like this , the debate is again about the value of science and engineering at such limits . it &apos;s easy to reject something like this .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard to take the fact that we reach beyond our limits is the value of things like the lhc .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , as i suspect , defended the useless experiments of his teaching , his apprentice was michael faraday , who said , &quot; nothing is so dangerous for developing the human mind to assume that our scientific ideas are valid , that there &apos;s no mysteries in nature that our triumpts are complete , and that there &apos;s no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
thank you .
i &apos;m a writer .
writing books is my profession , but it &apos;s more , of course than that .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
but the other thing that &apos;s happened is something that &apos;s happened in my life and my career that made me completely rethink my relationship to this work .
this strange event was that i wrote a book recently -- a biography called crew , pray , love sense -- that , unlike any previous books i had ever written in the world and became a big mega-event , international best seller thing .
the result is that i , no matter where i &apos;m from , am treated as if i &apos;m denied to the bottom .
seriously , the bottom line .
for example , do you get very worried about me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome that success ?
are you not afraid that you write down your whole life and never create a book that anyone in the world is interested in ? never again ?
okay , that &apos;s really courage .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that i was confronted over 20 years ago when i first told as a teenager that i wanted to be a writer , with the same kind of anxiety response .
people said , &quot; do you not fear never succeeding ? &quot;
are you not afraid that humiliation kills you ?
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to go through this craft and never create something out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a junk of dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter of failure ?
so , you know .
the answer -- the short answer to all these questions is , yes .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all of these things .
and i always had that .
and i &apos;m much more afraid of things that nobody would know .
like algae -- and other terrifying things .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently and wondering : why ?
is that rational ?
is it logical that somebody should be expected to do the work they feel they &apos;re afraid to do ?
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises that they make us insecure about the state of mind -- in a way that other jobs don &apos;t ?
my father , for example , was a chemist and i can &apos;t remember any situation in his 40 years as a chemist asking him if he was afraid he was a chemist .
with your chemical blockage , john -- how are you going to do that ?
it just didn &apos;t happen , you know ?
but to be fair -- the group of chemists have not gotten the call of alcohol &apos;s manic depression over the centuries .
but we writers seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creative of all genres , seem to have this call , mentally , to be unstable .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great heads alone from the 20th century who died by themselves and often by their own hand .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually give suicide seemed to have really been neglected by their talents .
norman mailer said just before he died in his last interview : each of my books killed me a little bit further .
an extraordinary statement you can make about your life .
but we don &apos;t even listen to somebody like this because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long . somehow , we &apos;ve accepted the notion that internal and collective acceptance that creativity and suffering somehow belong together , and that art , at the end , always leads to the soul .
the question i want to ask everybody here today is , is this idea completely fine for you ?
do you feel comfortable with it ? because with just one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with that notion at all .
i find them abusive .
and i find them dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch them be taken over to the next century .
i think it &apos;s better to live our great creative encourage .
and i definitely know that for me , in my situation , it would be very dangerous to start this dark path of conjecture , to be kind of -- especially in the fact that i &apos;m in my career right now .
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
i may have another 40 years of work inside of me .
and it &apos;s extremely likely that all i &apos;m going to write now is rated by the world as the work that came after the descended success of my last book , right ?
i &apos;ll just say it out , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s extremely likely that my biggest success is behind me .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
that &apos;s the kind of thought that can get someone to start drinking gin nine o &apos;clock in the morning , and i don &apos;t want that .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
so the question is , how ?
after some time of reflective , i seem to be able to continue writing , design a kind of protective psychological construct .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to keep a safe distance between me and my very natural climb about what the reaction will be to the writing .
while i &apos;ve been looking for models for this last year to do this , i &apos;ve been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have better or more reasonable ideas about how to help more creatively take care of the emotional risks that are connected to creativity .
this search led me to the ancient greece and the old rome .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
but in the ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
they thought that creativity was a kind of divine divinity that comes to humans from a distant , unknown source for unexplained , unknown reasons .
the greeks called these divine dials of creativity of demons .
he believed in it from socrates that he had a demonstration that told him from a distance .
the roman had the same idea , called this kind of body loseme of creative mind , a performance genius .
that &apos;s great . the roman didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed to be literally living in the walls of an artist &apos;s studio -- like dobby , the house 11 -- the out and the artist at work would somehow be invisible assistant and design the result of the work .
this is brilliant -- there it is , there is the distance i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and everybody knew it worked that way , right ?
the artist of aging was protected from certain things like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
if your work was brilliant , you didn &apos;t contemplate everything for you , everybody knew you had this disembodied genius that helped you .
when your work flew -- not entirely your mistake , right ?
everybody knew your genius was a little shhh .
so people in the west have thought a really long time about creativity .
and then the renaissance came along , and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was , let &apos;s put the human individual at the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to take commands from divine .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
for the first time in history , you hear people call this genius or this artist -- instead of having a genius .
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think that he thinks he or she &apos;s like the pot and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mysteries is a little too much responsibility to burst you up a fragile human psyche .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
this decorates and destores whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations for success .
i think that success pressure has devastated our artists over the last 500 years .
and if that &apos;s true , and i think it &apos;s true , it &apos;s the question .
can we change it ?
maybe to a ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of creative .
maybe not .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate the thought from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would sign up really legitimate scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that people follow and apply feathers to their projects and so on .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
but the question i want to throw up is , why not ?
why not think about it that way ?
because it makes as much sense as anything else i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely crazy mood of the creative process .
a process that -- as anyone knows , who ever tried to do something -- so in other words , everybody here actually -- doesn &apos;t always last reasonably .
in fact , he can sometimes feel straight to paranormal .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who &apos;s now over 90 , but who was more poet all of her life , and she told me that when she grew up in the local virginia out in the fields , she said she could feel and hear a poem about the landscape came to her .
she said it was like a thundering train of air .
it would roll over the country on them .
she felt when it came , because it would make the earth behave under her feet .
she knew that at such a moment she could only do one . and that was -- in her words , wizards run like the devil .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was tracked by this poem , and it was all about getting fast enough to a piece of paper and a pen so that when it was donated through her , she could capture and hold on the sheet .
in other times , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t get there and the poem rolled through her , and she missed it . she said it would go on to land and -- as she said -- looking for another poet .
and then there were these moments -- the part i &apos;ll never forget -- she said there were moments when she almost missed .
so , she runs into the house and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she reaches a pen just as it goes through her , and then she said -- it was like taking her other hand and putting it through her hand .
she got the poem on his tail and put it back into her body and took it over on the piece of paper .
in these opportunities , the poem came in and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
when i heard that , i thought that was really scary -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process happens .
this is not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel .
i &apos;m a mouth animal . to work , i have to get up and sweat at at every day at the same time , struggle , and really uncomfortable .
but even i &apos;ve sometimes made this thing in my mouth .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
even i had work or ideas that came through from a source through me that i really couldn &apos;t identify .
what is that thing ?
and how do we relate with it without losing our minds , but keeping us opposed to mental health ?
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits . i had to interview him a few years ago for a magazine .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of the time in his life , tom was the embodiment of the modern artist who was trying to master these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived inside him and deal with them .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and there was a change in everything for him .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody that , as it is often difficult for inspiration , is torture for him , and he wants to have them . he &apos;s gorgeous . he leans after that , but he can &apos;t believe them .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
so he starts , this old advance inside him , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing and be tracked by this song to eternal .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not able to do it .
but instead of getting into panic , he just stopped .
he finished all the thought and did something completely new .
he just looked into the sky and said , sorry , can you see that i &apos;m driving ?
am i like i just going to write a song ?
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
if not , squawk somebody else today .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
his whole process of working has changed afterwards .
not the work itself . it continued to be as dark as ever .
but the process , and the heavy climb that surrounds it , was lifted when he took the genius out of it , where it caused nothing but anger and left it where he came from , in a way , and he realized it didn &apos;t have to be an internalized , torturing thing .
there could be a property , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the strange , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it changed a little bit the way i worked , and it saved me .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of the writing process of wishing , pray , love sense , and i fell into one of these pit of doubt that we all fall into when we work on something and don &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s a disaster . this is the worst book that was ever written .
not only bad , but worst of all time .
i started thinking , i should just come up with the project .
but then i remembered tom talking to the open sky , and i tried .
so i took my view of the manuscript and i spoke my comment towards an empty corner of space .
i spoke loud : listen , you ding , you ding , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you can see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have that anymore .
so if you want to have it better , you have to check up here and hold your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that , you know what , then to the devil with it .
i &apos;m going to write on anyway , because that &apos;s my job .
and i want to ask you to protocol that i &apos;ve been here for my part of the job today .
because ... at the end of the day , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people have gathered into moonlight with sacred dances and music that have been held for hours to dawn .
these solids were always great because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but back and forth , very rarely , something special happened . one of the actors actually became overseas .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know that all of you in your life have seen such a performance .
it was like standing still and entering the dancer through a kind of pform . he did nothing but he ever did before -- 1,000 nights before . but everything was added together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer appeared pure human .
it was lit up from the inside and lit up from the bottom , and everything was lit up through a divine fire .
when something like this happened , people knew what this was . they called it his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing : performance allah , allah , allah , god , god . god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the moses conquered southern spain , they brought this practice . the language changed over the centuries of current allah , allah , allah , allah delicious olé , olé , who you still hear in sticky and flameno dances .
if a acter in spain did something impossible , something magical : image allah , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo expressible , there &apos;s it : a glimpsible look at god .
and that &apos;s great because we need that .
but the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer himself wakes up and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he no longer carries a fifth of god .
it &apos;s just an aging mortality in painful knees , and maybe it &apos;s never going to go up to that height again .
and maybe nobody will call god &apos;s name again when they turn , but what should they do with the rest of their lives ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of embarrasses if you didn &apos;t believe from the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence come from you .
if you just believe you &apos;re a guidance -- from an unimaginable source of a reader time of your life that &apos;s passed on to somebody else when you &apos;re done .
when we start thinking about it that way , it changes everything .
so i started thinking , and i think i certainly have been working on the book in the last few months while i was working on the book that &apos;s going to seem soon -- as the dangerous , scary , very expected aftercome of my descended success .
what i have to tell myself all the time , if i get crazy about this , is that i &apos;m not afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the stupid divine genius that you have to put aside for a moment decides a hunter of wonder through your effort , it &apos;s like hell .
and if not , still dance your dance .
and mind olé ! mind you all that .
i believe in it , and i feel like we should teach that .
odd ! odd for you despite all of this , just for having the mere human love and self-sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which had the size of the bottom 48 states for almost three million years , had shrinked 40 percent .
but that doesn &apos;t express the seriousness of this particular problem because it doesn &apos;t show the thickness of the ice .
in a way , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in the winter and shrinks in the summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse shot of what happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue , and this is the annual ice in the winter , and it shrinks in the summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it &apos;s going to be gone from here to here .
this is a problem because warming is looking at the frozen reason around the arctic ocean , where there are a lot of frozen carbon that , when it looks at it , is implemented by microbes to methane .
compared to the whole amount of climate change materials in the atmosphere , this amount could double if we cross that critical point .
already in some flat lakes in alaska methane , methane itself is challenged from water .
professor katey walter in alaska went to another small group of work to another flat seas last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re doing well . the question is , how are we going to get here ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat heat warms up greenland from the north .
this is an annual flow of water .
but volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is channellussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how sea level goes through land ice sheets , it goes into the sea here .
these rivers are taking a quick time .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which has appeared over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is 20 feet in the ocean , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you can see new lakes up there that were glaciers a few years ago .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half their drinking water out of that melting water .
in the anden , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
water levels have expanded .
but when you lose , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is the basin of memory .
and the predictions of how you read them are serious .
this aurochs in the world leads to a dramatic increase in firing .
and the disasters around the world have been at a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in previous 75 years .
this is a completely unsustainable development pattern .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it does .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons a day into the oceans .
look at the area of the eastern pacific right now , from the american continent west and both sides of the indian subcontinent , where there &apos;s a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , next to deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the two largest pollution , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
meanwhile , there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
and the coal strikes and oil dubs have spent a quarter billion dollars last year judging clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , i was walking around in tennessee at home , one billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news , apparently .
this is all over our country the second largest waste river in america .
this is what happened for christmas .
one of the ads of the coal industry for christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a fun , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it &apos;s helping our economy grow .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
he &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers stay in loves and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the massey coal ladder .
let me tell you one very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance of climate protection has started two campaigns .
this is one , part of it .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
so we set it up for the top time to spend a significant amount of money on a path to get a commercial action on the truth of coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and we still think it smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
leave that quietly .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet , burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , which is remarkably clean coal technology you see here changes everything .
look at it carefully , this is the clean coal technology today .
finally , the positive alternative is mixing up with our economic challenge and our national security challenge .
america is in a crisis , economics , national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects all of these is our dependence on carbon based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold new solution to free ourselves from this miserable situation .
run america with 100 percent clean electricity over the next 10 years .
a plan to get america back to work , make it safer and help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
new america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways to reduce our dependence on old , dirty fuels that promote our world .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
run america . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying : &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we need to get far , fast .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think about the time your childhood was when you played with building sound .
as they realized how to reach out and intervene , take the sound and move it , they actually learned to think and solve problems by understanding and changing spatial coherence .
the spatial thinking is deeply connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist , i was inspired by the kind of way we interact with real objects -- along with my professional adviser patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i started to wonder : what if we used computers that move instead of a mouse tip on a flat surface of work -- what if we could intervene with both hands and intervene data and put it in a physical way that we want ?
this question was so tangible that we decided to explore the answer and sift .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved with their hand , they can perceive each other , they can capture their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , are physical , so you can only move them like building blocks by extending hands and access .
and the sift beds are an example of a new generation of tools for manipulation of digital data .
and when these tools become more physical and develop a awareness of their movements , recognize each other and perceive the enemies of our process with them , we can start to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this sift bar is configurable for video repository , and if i play it in one direction , the video is played forward ; if i put it in the other direction of kip , it &apos;s going backwards .
and these interactive portraits are realizing each other .
so if i put them next to each other , that &apos;s what makes them interested .
if you &apos;re surrounded by one-ader , you &apos;ll notice that and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendency .
one interesting consequence of the interactions we started to realize was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shaking colors the way you do it with fluids .
in this case , we configuring three sift beaks as a color pot , and i can use them to pour color in the middle , where they &apos;re then mixed up .
if we overdo it , we can shoot a little back .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the possibility of fast trial and see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i &apos;m making with a simple equation program .
this is a game of words that &apos;s a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , every round you get on every sift table of random letters , and as you try to form words , they &apos;re checked over a dictionary .
then , after about 30 seconds , it &apos;s remixed , and you have a new combination of letters and new ways to try .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i could get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting fact about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people many instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and you know exactly what to do .
here are some people testing it .
this is our youngest beta-test on the lower right there .
it turns out he just wanted to stack the sift pills .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
this is an interactive trickster filming .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting the siftable off the table , showing this character .
here he is leaving the sun .
the sun comes up .
now he &apos;s going to get a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yeah !
by shaking the sift ables and putting them next to each other , he can let the characters interact ...
... invent his own story .
hi there !
it &apos;s a story with open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example i have time to show it today is a music sequencer for live tidying that we &apos;ve recently developed and operating in the sift beds as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each one has four different variations ; you can choose which one wants to use .
and you can put these notes in the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you feed them in by just holding a clay siftable on a sequencing siftable .
there are effects that you can change live , like reverberation and filters .
you connect it to a particular note and then you tend to hire it .
and then even more rearranged effects like pace and volume that you apply to the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we &apos;re starting to put the leadership voice in two sequencing siftable and put it in a row , expand it and it a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a bass .
now i &apos;m going to do some more of the drums about this .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter to the drums so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by tipping the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m going to connect the filter to the bass for a little more expression .
i can reframe the sequence as it &apos;s going .
so i don &apos;t have to plan you in the field , i can improvise you ; you can extende or shrink you during that process .
and finally , i can shut out the whole sequence by ending the volume siftable to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human interfaces that work better at fit how our brains and bodies work .
and today i had time to show you part of this new design world and some of the ways we &apos;re working on in our lab .
the idea i want to leave you with is that we &apos;re on the threshold of this new generation of ads to interact with digital media that bring information to our world that &apos;s related to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to talking to all of you .
yeah , good afternoon .
i &apos;m happy i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what should be biohacking ?
i have to pick up a little bit about this , and this is biohacking is about modern molecular biology .
i study molecular biology and i &apos;ve been looking at this for a few years now with biohacking , and i &apos;ve started this because i just wanted to know this more specifically , and i wanted to do it all myself , which i learned in theory .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to get closer to the matter , like that .
i think molecular biology in general now , which is , in general , biotechnology , everything you count , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important is , already extremely important and much , much more important will be in the future .
there are as controversial things as all these genetically engineered plants on the tags .
there are now craig venter in the u.s. who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , which is gas from algae .
under then , there are things that have come up completely in everyday life , but which most people are not aware of , for example , washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees are also genetically optimized enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and so out of the interest in this technology , i just kept going in there .
so why hack now ?
most people know this from the software field .
computers hack , and then it &apos;s always going to be in the media , yes , the hackers are breaking in somewhere and stealing data and so on .
this is kind of very sad for the hacking scene , because this doesn &apos;t hit what it actually started like , and what &apos;s actually behind it .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came from .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem with playful , creative , original way .
and problem , this is not just a technical problem , it can be a social problem , it can just be a problem with access , which is how things simplify , so any problem , you can throw up a question , and how can you do it differently or how can you do it better ?
and it just became software , but there &apos;s also an electronics area , there &apos;s a whole tinkering scene that &apos;s done with electronics circuits .
and right now , in biology , and i want to take this metaphor that &apos;s coming from synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers because it &apos;s more dynamic because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , not just cyber .
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can program that , and so you can also hack it , like that , and that &apos;s what i found incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to go much deeper into it .
this actually only took two thousand really shapes , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with cooperation in india based on the network , but now has members or active people around the world .
these are a little bit more artistic direction , so there are many artists and philosophers and scientists working with scientists to sit down and ask questions and process this creatively , there are museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s always about finding such a more expensive way to have such a playful way to do it .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is from the u.s. , a network , which is actually more like a forum where you meet where you &apos;re going to stop and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical and they &apos;re also a little bit more business along the way , and they &apos;re also asked this way , yes , applied questions .
and from these networks that have done the whole popular has evolved a scene like this that i want to portray for a moment .
here &apos;s the picture on the upper left , you see bioculture , which is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit facility where everybody can come in .
kids , old , all kinds of people go there to just sit down with them , they &apos;ve set up a lab and they &apos;re looking at what you can do if these lab protocols are happening .
on the bottom left here is a group in indonesia called house &apos;s natural fiber , but it &apos;s been around for a long time .
for longer than these other two networks .
they &apos;re also looking at an artistic aspect of biological materials and , yes , also electronics tinkering , and combining it in a pretty miserable way .
a group of ankara i met a while ago , they have a group of students who &apos;d like to stop communicating what they learned in college , and they &apos;ve done so on street little actions and try to explain to people what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up in the other picture in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the subject .
and that &apos;s , yes , that &apos;s mostly quite young people , but the only thing that actually collects you all is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it and you can just get into society and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know what do you want to do with it , do you have an interest in bringing you this ? &quot;
so , okay , to hack biology now , you need some kind of material .
you need biological materials , of course , , and you need tools , and then you need a lab .
or what you usually understand under a lab is that these are kind of discarded machines , extremely expensive , extremely distant , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
and our approach was to say , okay , you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
this is actually not necessary because every coffee machine actually has higher technology than most lab devices , which is really like this .
and s o with this premise with this premise , then brian degger tried to put together a minimum abor in england , then took a steam printing cooker , a heating plate , and , yes , soup breeding , and then grew bacteria .
so anyone who &apos;s been gaming a soup that he &apos;s left for too long has done .
i tried to expand this in my lab at home a little bit , and then i bought this gdp on ebay and did some d.n.a analysis , tried to do a fathertest , which is like this , d.n.a fingerprinting , back home .
that shouldn &apos;t actually be a joke now , but .
you can see down here in the picture , there &apos;s the lab , in leadership strikes , so a garage is like this with all kinds of lab camps that college has emitted , a group in paris that &apos;s been set up to do something , and it &apos;s pretty successful , and i want to cut a project short .
and this is bioculture , which i just mentioned hackerspace , this one , a kind of volkshock school , basically for molecular biology .
and yes , so , you can see it &apos;s relatively heterogen , so that &apos;s what people are doing to their own home , to large organizations doing this already in institutionalized form .
but just always the approach that it &apos;s supposed to be easy and accessible .
the first project we did as an international group , when we kind of realized ourselves , okay . it &apos;s here to give us a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then just came from the do-it-yourself bio org website in the founder , and said o.k , we need to really meet each other , meet real meetings , and then organized two events , one in london , two thousand , and shortly after that in the u.s. , in san francisco .
and , then it was about , yes , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values , and what are our goal , our basis ?
and then we worked out a code-of-body ct .
that was quite intuitive , so everybody just expressed his wishes , his and what moves him , expressed , then .
there came , i think , a very good code .
and we then didn &apos;t make that compelling , but that &apos;s what i think is , quite well , has gone through , people are quite convinced of that .
and then we even tried to bring that back to the academic world , but it &apos;s not somehow there .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacking scene , in fact , one step further than the academic world .
yeah , what kind of projects do we actually do now ?
one project i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was we wanted to tinker what we call an optical trap or an optical pink .
this is , if you focus a laser beam , on one of the rooms , you can basically capture small particles in the air or in the liquid and then in that focus , so it &apos;s captured there , so it &apos;s basically tractor beam .
this really works , this is done in academic mind , and we thought , okay , we might get this too , and we took a webcam that screwed down , turned off the lens , turned it on , you have a microscope that increases about four hundred times .
you can see that down there .
and then we put a d.v.d kilner apart and pulled the burning out the laser and then tried to focus on this camera there .
and unfortunately , that didn &apos;t work , but we still learned a lot .
so another project that worked out of the french group there in paris , which is pretty cool .
and that is , he has a brain wave measuring device like this , like e.e.g or something like that , so he &apos;s been busy with neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , he walked .
then the visitors could go in the room , sit on this chair , sit on this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought or how they thought , they went on to different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fortunate project .
another thing from the united states that has to do with this father &apos;s story is the p.c.r , that &apos;s the polymer chain reaction , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , consuming genes , d.n.a , consuming fragments so that you can make them visible .
so now , if i do this , the profilers in the crime scene , they go , they collect any hair samples , and then they do this method , and then they say , okay , this hair belongs to this person , like that .
and the machines that do this are pretty expensive to do this , which you buy commercially , are the cheapest ones to go on at four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in hobbyspace , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot of things about it .
so this is just one use of many of them you can do with it .
and they &apos;ve been running two builders , and they &apos;ve been like , okay , we &apos;re doing this easier and cheaper , and then we &apos;re getting out of open source , so free hardware , electronics , and this device is built together , and now they &apos;ve even brought this to the market , and now the cheapest provider in the world is .
i think somehow six dollars or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s definitely in a framework where it becomes more available .
so it &apos;s a very unfortunate hack , i think .
one project i started recently was building a gene gun .
gene gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two centimeters or so .
you put them on gold particles and the gold particles into these air pressure gun , and then i shot them on onions and made them light like this .
so the device you see there didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype , which looked like a little bit off , like a branch like this , attached to electronics and pressure , and that was the pressure too high , the thing broke .
and then i took a juice pender and i connected it to it .
a juhness , if you make the full power of water , is enough pressure , so i think that 40 to six months is about it .
and then you can accelerate the particles very much enough , and then they also go into the onions .
and the commercial device costs about five thousand euros upward or something like that , sahnespender about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically feasible .
and so that &apos;s right now the core issue of the scene is to increase this availability of technology and also to increase the information and understanding that more people can be engaged in that .
because , as i said at the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and there &apos;s no way that they can make it really well .
because if you just read about it , from secondary literature , it &apos;s not the same thing as if you saw it yourself do it or you saw it .
and i think technology is becoming increasingly important in our modern societies .
and if you want to be an informed citizen to make meaningful decisions in society and talk to them , you need access to knowledge and technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it to do it and understand it .
and the company then does it in the headwords of open performance and citizen science .
so that you &apos;re being able to be a citizen to deal with these scientific technologies .
and that &apos;s the core cause of the biohackers .
these are the people who worked out officially at least on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also represented in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think are there , there are fewer people than there actually exists .
so i know of some people who haven &apos;t carried out .
and these are just the biohackers now , the individual people .
partly with these hacking spaces , so these places put together .
and that &apos;s at the very beginning .
as i said , two-thousand-odds first started it .
and hackerspace , which is the computer hacking space , because c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-100-odd .
and this has now become a giant network of very good , yes , infrastructure centers that have been represented all over the world .
and we hope , of course , that we then spread similarly , and then we &apos;re also similarly connected , so that even more people can be involved .
and i would invite everybody to deal with it and try it themselves something .
now it &apos;s not that simple , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you put enough energy in , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hi .
how do we actually work ?
that &apos;s a question that moves me very much as a designer , but also in the field of research , usability and all things in the user experience .
this is about how to encounter people in interactive media so that they can use this interactive media and create a possible experience .
because i think that interactive media is addressing archaic , cognitive models , so thinking patterns that have been programmed in our biological memory very , very long ago , and that we can restore them through interactive media right now .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high technology you &apos;re facing is actually bringing you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
what are archaic models now ?
i wrote down four words and i &apos;d like to explain them briefly .
archaic cognitive models , and that is , these are the models we &apos;ve tried to do in the pre-industrial times .
to these archaic models , we have a basically natural relationship with virtuality .
this sounds kind of unusual first .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a minute and try to prove to you that you also have a natural relationship with virtuality .
the second thing is that since we have these archaic models , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very imagery , even though we use a coded language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media is by definition non-linear , which includes the sense of linearity , and what tells us , of course , that we think of linearity as normal today .
the fourth point is that the story for us is a place of information .
now what about the virtuality that &apos;s actually the most natural thing in the world .
i &apos;d like to prove that to you .
how many doors do the house have you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer that immediately , but it &apos;s going to happen , and this is going to happen right now .
they go around this house in the mind , so they live in this house , and they look at how many doors there are .
and that &apos;s exactly what they do .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re tired of representing virtual reality in our v.r. lab , for example , we can do it all the time .
and that fortune to virtualize the virtual reality that people needed in the pre-industrial times also needed bitter , because they had nothing .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photooligraphy .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in that head , memory was played .
in that head , knowledge was called , and with these virtual images , imagination , knowledge was just passed on .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s so much rooted inside us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
what &apos;s interesting about this is , if i can make a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s going on .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at the time , man was also media producers and medium himself .
now , if you think a little bit further , right ?
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there was a change .
but i &apos;ll get to talk about that in a minute .
essential tools of information have been stories since all of the time .
shamanas , priests , what we call knowledge watchmen , were extra for preserving knowledge in stories .
and again , we &apos;re still very , very strong in stories .
the author of the book , the story animal , jonathan gotchall , we &apos;re still connected a thousand hours a year to the recipe of stories .
that means that for a child who spent it most of his life achieving the grandson , he spent it with the recipe of stories .
now we think our love of stories depends on us as a child sitting on our parents &apos; lap .
no , no , no , far missing .
this is much further back to the cultures of pre-industrial times .
but for me , in the realm of interactive media as particularly amazing that we &apos;ve anchored by se in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought you an example from the north american tribe of the nootka indian .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very infrequent area , and you had to navigate , you had to get from island to raise food .
and they did this with what &apos;s called lead-map .
you may know that if you &apos;re interested in it a little bit , from australian native people .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead maps , they used songlines like this , or they used trauma flags .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that navigation and topography could be represented by songs .
where the language was subordinated by subordinated rang .
that means you navigate over sound and over rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have shown the geology that topography of a region represented , and that &apos;s of course also allowed you to degrade these songs and put yourself in different ways and move to the left and right and also to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from above a to b ?
anyway , not to navigate .
what happened there actually ?
it happened to be the genital machine age .
we moved to what we call the avian age .
what happened was the machine age , and it happened is the book , and it happened is the photoligraphy .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and our own production of our individual memories on external media .
the book and the picture .
so unfortunately , we &apos;ve virtualized a piece of god far away .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and it has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a famous design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he means the book and the picture , so not the television , the internet and so on , and so on , what we call mass media today , have fossilized this mass media of our memories and enabled our ability to virtualize .
let &apos;s make a little intermediate .
from the age of birds to the machine age .
what has influences on our thinking and on our memory ?
then the faded influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they &apos;re more and more overwritten over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
that means , instead of reremembering individually , we have standardized , widely distributed , patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we don &apos;t produce ourselves anymore .
we have an abstract language . we have an abstract language .
we don &apos;t imagine the thing in pictures anymore that things don &apos;t happen in pictures , but we coding them our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things linear happen .
and we accepted linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions like the non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve stayed is the story mind .
we &apos;re still very , very arrested by story as an information mediation .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vocal age , we had the machine age , and we were now describing what we call the cyberage .
this sounds very spacey and sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of the cyberage are bringing us back to rediscover these opportunities .
this is about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about story history .
i want to explain that for a moment .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which means augmented reality .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , a concept like this is what makes us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which means that our monkey to virtualization is to feel virtual as something normal , natural .
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality .
so crazy , of course , in the context of my talk , we &apos;re moving physically in non-existing virtual worlds , all after the holodeck model .
and other examples are the ambitious , intelligent systems .
these are rooms that can respond intelligent to a human being .
all of this takes the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated from it , and i hope the video works , brought a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , ann-kathrone in krence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the two last ones are here today .
maybe you can get up for a moment so that they can talk to them about the project at the break .
and this is a project i brought with me as an example of how to address these archaic , cognitive models .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposite to story and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to have some people happy in front of any console or playing with them with some console in your hand .
anyway , they &apos;re doing that in .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s thought to be the outside world , so i explore the real world again .
and this game connects the virtual world , so the data connects the space we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut off so much .
you can explain that much better in a minute , there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and that &apos;s about exploring a city by looking at where places have been positive or negative .
and so i get a very different view from the city , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones in a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you see in a minute .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , is clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize my talk , in the sense that the properties and the skills we &apos;ve acquired from the vocal age , and which have gone so little into the machine age , that , with the help of what we call the cyber age , we can be activated , and that in this way , we can get about complex , technological new products , not actually into the future , but actually come back to us in our roots .
thank you .
yeah , i &apos;m very excited to be with you .
i just was asked if this bag there was a talking bag , and mine was going to speak .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
i &apos;m going to resolve what &apos;s in there in a minute .
but i &apos;m just making it a little bit curious so far .
yes , kids are naturally curious or should be curious , designers as well .
i &apos;m a creator of house , so i &apos;m , of course , looking at the subject of curiosity , and how does curiosity change our thinking again , and why do we lose curiosity , and why do we lose it again , and so on .
that &apos;s a whole range of things that you &apos;re dealing with next to actual existence as a creator .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often shrinked into this n research semester .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half of the year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now you &apos;re going to ask yourself why do all the creators start to deal with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on .
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up there , because things should get more intuitive , more natural , user-friendly , and you have to look at what &apos;s actually natural for us humans , what &apos;s useless or intuitive .
and before the background , i &apos;m in the field of natural user interface , so the next generation in the walking computer in the relationship of the human computer is looking at how our tools , or how the computer is changing from the computer to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been looking at when , of course , or intuitive .
maybe you have to look back at this .
why does this even happen ?
so if we look at the development of our society , in short , we &apos;re moving from the third to the fourth generation of society or social form .
so from modern into computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at the beginning , tribal society is through language .
that means you found yourself by talking to a common language , you could communicate with each other , you pulled into the same cave , you created cities or villages , and you created tribal society , in a way .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very vivid .
you also had to learn , so no small child can talk from nature , but we learn it sukessive and proportionate , of course .
this was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
that was a huge outcry at the time , because of course you started manifest the living language in the form of writing , which means what fluid and alive , i start and i throw it into stone , and i manipulate it as well .
depending on how i throw and when i mile , of course , it &apos;s a very different coverage than if there &apos;s a living thing to you .
but sukessive then moved this script as a primary medium to get in .
then the next generation we actually live in today is where we live primarily .
this is just coined by pressure and print with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just as much a monkey where adel , kler and others said , you &apos;re actually insane when the people start reading , the people want to talk afterwards , and of course , that &apos;s completely fatal .
and now we &apos;re getting to the next generation , and the exciting thing is , this generational shift is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now that we &apos;re participating in .
this completely confuses us , of course , because we see on the one hand the new media , social media , facebook and so on .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what bangs on old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat and no beef is anymore or other phenomena , which is that i want to just tumble it up , and i want to do it exploration .
and these two worlds are cracking together , thinking new and old .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , rejects very many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
but now , not at the local level , but at the global level .
we understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global one .
not if i think locally about ecologically , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that means , from the local village , a global village has actually become a global village with the same principles , possible , intuitive , but also total transparency .
just like you knew in the village at the time , who has what &apos;s going on with whom and when , this is how this is happening today about extension of ourselves through these mobile finders at a global level .
whether we know globally and faster and better and better and better .
just as it used to happen on the village .
before the background , i was looking at this , what does it mean , what &apos;s even natural for us , what may we have forgotten , what &apos;s instinctive for us , but also instinctive , what makes the difference ?
because often people come , they can &apos;t do it user-friendly to get anyone to use it .
so you have to look at what that means , and not only do it change that it &apos;s different , but it should get better .
and when is , of course , a little intuitive , and how can i take influence on it as a creator and make things so that they &apos;re user-friendly , so they &apos;re intuitive because then they &apos;re fun and easy to use ?
you &apos;re looking at it , even during the study , with the theme of perception and perceptual psychology .
and of course , that &apos;s where you start and look and say , &quot; okay , now i &apos;m just going to look inside myself . &quot;
and what &apos;s it like to be in there ?
so how do we work if we look in there ?
and what does that mean , in fact , intuitively , and how do our channels work in perception , and how does cognitive processing work ?
because steve jobs once said you need to deliberately reflect it .
so you really have to look in the details if i want to make something user-friendly or intuitively handable , which means at the core .
and you can see that you can see a our seven senses , most people think we only have five , now it &apos;s even seven now , and there &apos;s certainly the next , awesome sense coming up in the near future , and as an extension of ourselves .
and to look at how do we process information , how do we take information ?
to say alone , what &apos;s information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
many people use the word , knowledge , but not what it means then .
but i have to understand at the core , in the creature , when information becomes information , when data becomes information , and from information , again , so that i know how to make things intuitive or handable afterwards .
and of course , how design affects perception .
we see this here , when i make things up , i can confuse them like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what salt and pepper is , or i can kind of make them intuitively by showing things .
so much more natural , in a pot , but i kind of see where salt and pepper is in there .
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll think about where on the right is in there .
and just intuitively , in the left , and then hopefully i hope that there &apos;s no sugar in there that salt is just about to do .
but also , our perception of ourselves , how do it deceive us ?
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the little one , even though that &apos;s not the case at all , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes depending on what context we put things in .
does anyone know what that is ?
come on .
limits should still work .
there it is already becoming more of my glasses .
so it &apos;s n circle .
a second circle already starts to correlate or associate certain similarity .
and then when i sit there for another halboval , we suddenly don &apos;t see another unit , which is circle , circle , and , but we see one unit , we don &apos;t see three parts , a circle , a circle , a circle .
that &apos;s called shape law or shape psychology , which also affects us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the designers , they have this usually in the first semester , the great laws of rock .
shape law of closeness , shape law of continuity and so on .
often in the third then , already forgot .
but that &apos;s an essential component , if you want to make things intuitively intuitive in this way .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting , is vision .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get closer to that .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you first see them from behind to front .
because they projieve an assumption forward that they see something that they recognize , precedented circle .
that means we &apos;re only projeting our vision before we see it , bringing it back into our seaweed to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got this cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve proved something you want to see .
that &apos;s where it is , that &apos;s when it comes back .
then it goes forward again , because the back doesn &apos;t look at the front and say , well , there &apos;s really another request and make sure that what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes back to the back , and then it &apos;s actually just seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things happen and what happens for millisecond areas of these things .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture .
there &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who recognizes it .
does anyone see anything particular ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i see that , this is a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it because i &apos;m going to show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and further , you always see it .
that means i &apos;ve actually interrupted you now that you don &apos;t see any pattern in it anymore , but i &apos;ve converted it within a short time , to see this dog in this worn picture .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m proposing to the front that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , quite , really exciting processes , which then happens in this , yes , gray is actually not , but this is in this rosane mass that &apos;s just going on .
does anyone know what three seconds are ?
long , yeah .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s also interesting to know as a designer .
if i know it takes three seconds to kind of get me out of the present into the past loop , i can also bridge times very well waiting for me to engage someone in three seconds .
that &apos;s what he has to process as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegant waiting times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what takes five milliseconds to fund ?
yeah , milliseconds .
also , a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the period where you fall in love .
that means , notice , if you know this now , watch who you &apos;re looking at for for a long time , because i don &apos;t take a gun for what &apos;s going to happen .
and six milliseconds , also an exciting phenomenon .
this is the time of most perceptions we have .
that means that first impression is happening at a rapid speed , as we see things .
and as we see things also , what we look at and how we kind of look at ourselves against our environment so that we can think about them properly .
of course , not only do the designers deal with the topic of perceptions and neural processing or cognitive processing , but primarily with the theme of the human object .
so how does a human being deal with certain things ?
there &apos;s once product language , so the practical functions , or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are phone functions , where i know exactly where to reach .
but there &apos;s also symbolic functions , why does anyone spend such a little chunk where hardly anything in there anyway , spend so horrendous amount of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
there we are more at the symbolic level , at the level of meaning we engage with as a creator , of course .
back to my actual theme of natural users interface and the topic , which is , of course , usability .
usability always means , how can i possibly achieve a certain goal or how can a user reach a certain context of use effectively , efficiently and satisbly and satisbly achieve a goal ?
that &apos;s what it says more about the norm .
how can i make something possible using friendly ?
can i use that directly , or can i need it right , or can i need it to be used for that ?
and less usable or usable is friendly .
that i do this just differently and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean it &apos;s better handable .
you also have to understand that .
and then if you look at the software we just saw , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is little intuitive or not used by the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , even though it &apos;s much more intuitive than classic software .
and not since apple is an intuitive tool , an essential economic factor , a more elementary success factor , if i want to make technological devices usable to people .
why ?
because usually we &apos;re through this new kind of usability , which is the natural user interface , for example , five times faster on average on our goal .
you have to imagine , if you do something of the classical softer , you take five hours and with this new kind of natural software , you just take an hour .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you can probably go home probably four hours more , but your employer or anyone can already think of how he &apos;s been doing with the four hours .
but i mean , of course , it &apos;s a corresponding achievement for us to get certain things .
then if we go back to the software area again , here &apos;s the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where you took months to deal with these systems .
then the next ones , which were working with the nem neural model or mental model like the software eergonomists , were working , which is you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop to make your computer usable .
so not more zeroes and ones or cryptic code , but just a metaphor .
this is what made it much more user-friendly , but of course it &apos;s much better .
the next generation of graphic interfaces is already working a lot more with behavior .
so i , as a creator , am much more likely to make behavior than that .
that &apos;s also a paradigm shift .
that suddenly , i think that looks always unimportant to success , and the usability is becoming an app .
and then if i go one step further into these natural user interfaces , where i &apos;m voice , by language , by touch , by gesture , and by mouse and cursor , i &apos;m even faster and more immediate .
but that also leads me back to the point , when do things get more intuitive ?
if you get more intuitive , and then i have to put my little friend back here and look , what does that mean from the perspective of cognitive cognition , when &apos;s really something intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always an intuitive thing for us humans to do if i have to think about it very little .
so he doesn &apos;t seem to like to think , he just makes it proportionate .
the less i think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
that means , if we look at how we can transmit existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , i can use that as a creator .
that means i can just transmit an intuitive human action model to software , and make the software much more user-friendly .
of course , the question is , what &apos;s the most intuitive hand scheme of us humans , and now i &apos;ve already measured it ?
this is what &apos;s called the osit-model .
this uses each of us and oven to be an acronym and standing for oriented , selective , informed , transformed .
each of you does that all the time , but it does it unconsciously , and it kind of intuitively or partly instinctively .
the model is already flown out in the womb and is interculturally , so it works in the world at young and old , and it &apos;s used all the time , without most people knowing that this model is there .
obesity is about 50 to 70-odd thousand times we &apos;ve ever found in activity , so in the sleep , it &apos;s then put less often than a day .
i can orient this mental model of action right now , selective , informed , transmitted to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , similar to the metaphor of the desktop , but now not anymore a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a action pattern , a action principle .
and this is on a higher grail of user kindness than that of transmission of a classical metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transmit this now , for example , in which i orient as a overview , selective as a selection , informed in the case , it comes big to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , i can transfer it somewhere else or send somebody or buy them and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
i &apos;m trying to do this through an example .
everybody &apos;s eaten pies .
oversight : now i &apos;m interacting with the object , kind of , can zoom out , zoom in .
i &apos;ll get the whole overview , now i can filter on this , and i can say , just show me all the things about chocolate , for example .
and suddenly , you have an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because that i can grab things like the bits , touch , and they come up to me is much more natural than when you think about hierarchical web pages or other mechanisms can make these things accessible .
imagination is more than hell , and with that sentence , i &apos;d like to end with a and again leave the clue , designers need to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , thank you very much for your attention and please .
i want to help you with a very particular aspect of curiosity .
the first thing is , when you get big as a child , as a baby , you take care of what you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents allowed you to play more or less in the pottery and touch , the more , to say , your curiosity is naturally blown up .
and the curiosity is not learning .
so all of you who are here and are curious are actually people who have a property you can &apos;t learn .
i &apos;m now about using basically this whole environmental discussion , world demise , 40 years of club-of-rome , stuff .
and there &apos;s a central point about this .
and it &apos;s on phosphorus .
give pee a a a chance .
every day , they give you plus-sized cost of about two grams of phosphorus , and every day you have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
you can &apos;t have bones .
we could just glide as an amorph mollusk through the global ocean .
if we actually don &apos;t pick up and give down phosphorus .
amazingly , we &apos;re looking at something that &apos;s actually self-understanding , but is not what it is .
because everybody talks about energy , but nobody talks about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we &apos;ve only been putting phosphorus for two years , and already now , through phosphorus mining , worldwide , is much more uranium into the environment than in all nuclear plants .
in the last 20 years alone , fifteen thousand tons of uranium has been distributed in our fields in germany alone .
and we &apos;re going to take that all up .
it makes leukemia in kids .
and we think we would protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less car .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but this is not a protection .
that &apos;s like i would say , shake your child , just beat it three times instead of five .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think about it from the weight to the bail , our whole earth will become used to or later a cemetery .
so just thinking about the weight to the weight .
and the most important thing about this is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over six percent of the carbon is stored .
right now , we &apos;re growing corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30 pounds per hectare , or calculating the square meter .
that means we lose about five thousand times in the ground than reeducated .
we can look at the problem of waste , of course .
and everything is packaging or content .
for example , in openness , 20 percent of the garbage is 20 percent of the garbage between wind .
and as we get older , the wind gets bigger .
these are all of you in the front stage , in a way .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could reduce that by 10 percent , of course , but what does that do ?
this is balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
here &apos;s one of the evidence , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is emitted in the pigs over the solid ingredients .
people over the urine .
yeah .
so men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s what it &apos;s doing , right ?
we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many of them in the world .
and if you tell the people who if you tell the people to exist , if you say that &apos;s better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they get refined and hostile .
and so somebody like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , they say , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could take termites , but in the united states , nobody likes termites , look so far as they &apos;re vegetarians .
that means the ants weigh much more than we do .
and because they physically work much harder than we do , and because they live only three to six months , they correspond to their weight , in energy use , a little 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you can see how far we &apos;re from what we really wanted to do and could be , and how sad we are that we are on earth at all , you can see that , for example , openbach has a program , until 20 , you want to be a climaneul here , right ?
you can only be climate-neutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only way .
have you ever seen a climaneutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees , right ?
yes ?
no tree is carbon neutral .
fortunately , not , right ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon alone .
have you ever heard of some of the population problems of trees ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most strict bio-agriculture , it doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year we lose three million tons of phosphorus that would really have to go back into cycles .
and we &apos;re too many .
about it alone .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say . there &apos;s no bio-land , no bioland , no natural progression , and as you all mean , allowing our own excrements to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
that &apos;s what we &apos;re with .
it makes sense to be less harmful about oil consumption .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest thing is not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , right ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
so you can &apos;t solve this .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we &apos;re doing agriculture in brazil , where we &apos;re regain the nutrients .
right now , we can get nutrients back in agriculture in this way .
we do that in china , for example , where we take the waste from it directly .
in china , a post-doc is still called honey pots , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring back our nutrients .
that means the whole western civilization-history is that the city has always taken , but has never given back to the farmers .
so cities had to grow more and more because farmers were going to the cities , and the cities had to go further and further away their nutrients .
so all the western rich have always expanded until they no longer made the infrastructure , and then they &apos;ve been imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve made nonetheless civilization over five thousand years because you &apos;ve always been able to bring back the nutrients .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting for the food that they &apos;re staying until they &apos;re looking for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients away .
you invited them to eat , not to the nutrient theft .
that means you can see on the internet how to regain the nutrients .
that &apos;s actually beautiful , if you do that , which is to do that , which is to create agriculture , biogas , on a hectare of five thousand people in favelas , so a farmer can get about a thousand-hundred dollars and wait for the plant to grow chicken and pig and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas is over ninety percent .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be very little bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed to do that by the design that a farmer can just economize them .
that means that this is what crime rates go back .
and none of these plants , we &apos;ve now built over a hundred in the last 20 years , none of these plants have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw in a liter altol so easily , and then the plant would be ruined for years .
don &apos;t happen .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people to be very little bad .
we can support them to be good .
that means we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do something from it , you write down , in germany , best suited by all the sewage plants is in frankfurt .
unfortunately , they don &apos;t get into openbach , but maybe they can help the frankers a little bit .
because the frankie facility could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that in terms of phosphorus being really critical .
and we see that it works out .
we &apos;ve been using ourselves in holland for three years now .
the dutch government has explained that they &apos;re going to be the first country in the world to regain phosphorus .
but we need that in total .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 17 percent of the phosphorus worldwide .
there &apos;s opec , there &apos;s a bunch of orphanages .
that &apos;s six and 20 countries controlling 40 percent of the oil supply .
and the oil will be replaced by other energy carriers .
but you &apos;re not going to be able to replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing one a little bit less bad , but about doing something right .
and first of all , it &apos;s asking what the right thing is .
that means it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
of course , in holland , you understand that easier because in holland , of course , the country is built on flowers .
yes ?
imagine if your wife is sad , for example , when you angry her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but it &apos;s all effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six commma three kilograms in her lifetime .
in the process .
this is not scientifically accurate because we don &apos;t know how much it &apos;s kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in that lighting , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but very effective , right ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful about life is not efficient .
that &apos;s why it &apos;s not resource efficiency , it &apos;s efficiency .
asking , what &apos;s that right ?
not to burn the sewage mud a little bit better and overlay it with and lose all the materials for cycles in the combustion facility , but first to ask , how do you close cycles ?
imagine mozart efficiently .
yes ?
when i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a pill with open taste and a glass of water in it .
wonderful , huh ?
that &apos;s efficient .
all that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficiently ?
yes ?
that means reducing all that matters in life is not about saving , avoiding .
the whole environmental argument .
we tell people , oh , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is exactly the right thing to do , right ?
at every place you throw away from , yes , you create lifespans again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
in how we think from the north .
there &apos;s every footprint disadvantaged .
if you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the ground is going to die off the mosses , and the wind is going to wash away the ground .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water is longer in the meadow .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but when i ask her , how do you do that with your wife ?
what do you say ?
sustainable .
then i say , heartbreak , right ?
that &apos;s the minimum amount .
so not saving , deniing , avoiding .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see in italy , people in the high bow throwing out like &quot; ne coke can &quot; in the car , to do it .
because , you know , that &apos;s a fun process .
it &apos;s a refour behavior form , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , there we go .
we developed a ice cream package , for example , at room temperature , liquid .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it builds up everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can throw through the throat to biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful at all .
so there are two cycles .
not everything is supposed to be composable , of course .
a tv or a washing machine that uses them , yes , they don &apos;t use them .
just the things that are veiling , like shoe soles , like brakes , like cars , that have to be so that they go to biological systems .
the things that are only used are going to technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company , puma per se , but for this company to help this company succeed .
because we &apos;re not making things more free .
yes ?
so if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we find out what &apos;s in there .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in it .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in there that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes to be able to put the cavalier launch on the pedestrian light and walk the rubber into biological cycles , right ?
all of them are composable .
and if we can do it , of course , we can do it for adids , for nike , for hennes and mauritz , and for all the textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s sewage problems caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they help with , they ask people what to do .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve changed the board twice now .
and i &apos;m not so sure they really stay here .
so , help me do a little bit of this .
but it &apos;s going .
yeah .
the thing that &apos;s just been shown .
this is possible .
we can do things now that if they swallow , if they break , they can be in biological cycles .
technical cycles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct renaming system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , in fact , that &apos;s made to go back to the cycle .
again , so in everybody store , you can get things back .
when you get there , right ?
do you remember the winds again ?
if there &apos;s garbage right now .
these wind are all over the place , almost .
in the countries where people come from .
there &apos;s a front of the deponia , but there &apos;s a lot of other things in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastic , so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water storage , inside , that you can go back on a cellulosic basis , you can plant hundreds of fifty trees with a baby in israel or in tunisia .
yes ?
if you take these winds alone , they shrink , they sterilize and they take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral , we can be climate positive .
it &apos;s about a behavior poop print , in a sense .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute on this .
now , there are a lot of people working there , and they can all be engaged .
there &apos;s extra clubs to cradle-to-cradle-to-cradle , where everybody can join us .
so not saving , eliminating , avoiding , reducing , not guilt management , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
thank you .
the work of the interpreting .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , i write that as a interpreter , i &apos;m a translator , so in english , i understand .
interprets are translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that as a translator , you have to understand not only the word for word &quot; text &quot; into a different language , but you have to understand the deeper sense of words and word bias to make it a meaningful translation , anyone knows what to do with foreign languages .
already from german to english , it can require more knowledge , even if you &apos;re talking about poetry or even about poetry .
but it &apos;s alien to layman what we do to musicians with our music language .
as a interpreter of a piece of music , i first have just the written notes .
you think the composer has written into the notes exactly everything he came up with .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even though very seemingly peniculous , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal landscape description , the smell of flowers is not to smell the degree of the founder , not to hear the column of the wind , not to feel .
that means the interpret has to translate these unprecedented views of emergency into another , which is audible , concrete , non-verbal music language .
today i want to translate to you what else i &apos;m using musically , which is interpreting , again , into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation of translation .
so i prefer to do the whole thing in german , because if i had to translate it back into english , it would be equally important for me to translate the translation of translation .
so the one that music works for me is similar to spoken word .
the notes that written are the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read notes and press the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
because that would be just the letters you learned to paint .
you can only see the meaning of the letters if you can see the language .
so for the learning process of music , at least as long as it is for spoken word .
now , there are also exhibitions whether you learn it for practice , you just passively understand it , or you can also talk to the musical mother language .
the work of the interpret starts similar to a theater director .
after you first chose a piece of play , because you &apos;re excited about it , you study the origin of composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , the dials , the notes , or whether there are words , the ideas of composers themselves .
you study the works he composed before and after .
you compare it .
the reasons to write it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m all interested in that .
you think into that time by , for example , looking at contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , you also have a rich knowledge for the composer you play more often , and it &apos;s easier for you to think in and feel like you .
the composer is becoming more and more for your friend to live with .
his cause of writing the piece is becoming more and more to my personal cause of playing it .
now that the notes are everything but an accurate record of the cause of the composer , but only a framework , i &apos;m now turning this scaffolding to restore it with meaning and meaning .
i then say with my own words about what might be written between this scaffolding .
i play games explaining what these notes might have .
now for me and for the composers at the time and what they might mean for him today .
every note , every phrase , every phrase , gets a sense of it because i feel it myself because it comes from my personal jar .
it has to be coherent for me in this room and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s always a very happy concert over and over again if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve worked out for so long in advance , how to experience .
how you reexperience a happy new day , although always with the same rituals of life , get up , breakfast , going to work , i &apos;m doing the same piece over and over again .
i grew back a day older , which changes seasons , my pulse goes slower at night than in the morning , in a concert room , takes longer , the sound comes back than at home .
i take the breathing true of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this affects me , and all of this also affects my experience with composition .
it &apos;s quite wonderful when i stand on stage with a duo partner and we have the same wavelength .
then the same thing happens as a good , excited conversation .
you bring a new idea in , and anyway , it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting because then things that we didn &apos;t try and do and which you can &apos;t sample either .
it &apos;s a lot of fun to make music that way , and you &apos;ve experienced how music communicates alive .
so every concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play anything like this moment .
i can &apos;t play today as much as i can in 20 years .
i &apos;m going to have more life experience than i do today , and so my palette of music will have much more color nuances , emotions and sentiments than it is today .
certainly , i &apos;m going to throw out some color pots as well , but get new ones .
have a nice example of this .
it was on a piano cursus for music students with my beloved old teacher , professor jzurgen ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and long-term professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was much too young so that he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very lucky to meet him very early , three-10 years old , and so i was on his classes at my school .
i was 17 when i went back to seven , when i went back to one of his courses and played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a work later .
he asked me what was the introduction of this ballad for me .
that &apos;s such a shared part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
and he was shrinking and saying , right ?
that has to be the difference in aging .
because for me , it means memory .
he &apos;s been to his sixties .
well , at seventh 10 , you have dreams , but not meaningful memories .
i play the play every few years today and it &apos;s changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
it &apos;s exciting every time , because every time i read something new .
one example of that from a very different area . monet painted the seerosis times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but it &apos;s always different days of day , different light .
he translated the seerosis differently , as he saw , as they worked on it at that moment .
his personal impressions of the seerosis .
the x-time interpretation of a piece is comparable to that .
now , i &apos;m also older than chopin , at two and a half years , when he wrote the piece .
he only lived nine-and-a-half years .
and i think i &apos;m important to look at the notes over and over again , even though i think i can memorize them .
to keep twins going , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
especially if he &apos;s already died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said , you know , you need about as long as you have spoken word .
the often music class is so that you learn to read the notes .
you learn to read basically first before you speak only one word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
then if all the fingers in time and just the way the notes are moving , they come out sound that sounds like music together .
when the error happens , the student gets up the next difficult piece .
interpretation is barely talked about in early education .
all right , there &apos;s a presto on the front , that &apos;s a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
according and body signs , f and b , etc .
most of you know that .
but even though you use these angles , it &apos;s still a little bit of a technical .
and still , it &apos;s not an interpretation .
i wonder .
i wonder that you often forget something very elementary .
that to make music on the instrument , your musical do and feel should be there before .
that is singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing because it &apos;s not going to do it by himself .
this is like talking learning .
it &apos;s necessary to have his own experiences and idea of music , and then to have it over another way , so about an instrument , about sound .
people who never talked have ever felt immediately with their own body , as it is to form a sound .
designing a phrase with its own breath .
because the musical instrument is the extension of our bodies .
our vocal vocal friend to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my finger .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm from the dance .
the permanent narrative today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself if you &apos;re bored .
no longer need to whistle or sing a song .
every one of your music is made up if you &apos;re constantly accused of music from the outside .
certainly , there are some of you who say yes , but what do you do if i can &apos;t sing ?
i ask you , can &apos;t you sing a because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they haven &apos;t learned to sing ?
they &apos;re not too late to start in order to see if they can &apos;t , or learn how to use these little muscles that hire the vocal tape .
because you can train that .
or c , because they complained to you that they &apos;re intractable .
i wonder , how professionally competent was this diagnosis ?
have you ever gotten a second or a third opinion , as they say beautiful today ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and so you don &apos;t want to have nix .
but what i would regret then is that music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can still agree with them .
well , you can see , on all cases , nobody has to be an extraordinary candidate .
but don &apos;t say , please , i don &apos;t understand about classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
i answer that , but certainly you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think it says it , i don &apos;t know if it tastes me because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t deny food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to quote classical music either , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say whether it tastes you or not .
whether the music is too pepped or too sweet to you .
tell me what you feel .
over time , you also get claims and you want to have a little more spices there , or even taste fine differences .
now why do i demand from my audience that it &apos;s also active to listen ?
because the music is a language , and a language is a language to communicate there .
a piece of art you never look at has no power to work .
the food that was cooked by a chef or a chef has to be eaten has to be eaten and not just looked at or traded recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice sound record .
if in an environment where adults are actively making music , or at least hearing music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color is your flower ?
can you play them in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial , instead of a red flower , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different from before .
that was the very first beginning of a musical expression .
so the first step to interpretation .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was written originally a hundred , two hundred or even three hundred years ago ?
now the instruments have moved on .
there was no piano at the moment as an instrument .
it just wasn &apos;t invented yet .
i think the stream would have been excited if he had the loud possibilities of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can make the sound that the stream has had today on the modern wing , which a barockle cembalo can &apos;t do .
you know , beethoven &apos;s also known that he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that a orchestra of then has rejected as unplayable .
so the composers depend on us interprets that reinvent the pieces again .
so they can be audible , which they &apos;ve only come up with in the mind .
and also , what you would think in the mind today .
or what i &apos;m going to do today because what you might have thought .
thank you .
do you know what &apos;s envy ?
have you ever been envy ?
and what did that feel like ?
sucks .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
when i come , with my little v piesel and i &apos;m wrong , this feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting through my head .
i say , ulf , what do you need to have big car for ?
that &apos;s already losing half of its value in the first year .
and at all , you worked much less than i did .
why do i have to afford little cars like this ?
and then i immediately come in , that &apos;s unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , that unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such uncomfortable feelings as envy to make it disappear .
you can also try this in words like revenge or profitability or something .
i want to explain to you about this mechanism today or approach something that you &apos;re unlikely to be familiar with .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think about the lie , as you may have heard , when people say , nobody has the intention of building a wall .
and then he doors stones up so he locks them up .
you can see on a lie like this , the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s easily checked out that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he &apos;s just deceiving you and not himself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about has to do with you being fooled .
you need that lie to have a lie to keep a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , check or fall .
you need time .
that time , an anecdote is talking about , which you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her at all .
picasso says , wait a minute .
it gets more and more similar to them .
at this point , and when you laugh , you can see how important this lie is and how much time you need to experience something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a disruptive relationship with lying .
the artist tells you something , and especially this lady , what she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist tells you something like this that you &apos;re only going to be familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
then that uncomfortable feeling disappears that it couldn &apos;t look like you at all , and it gets more and more similar to you .
here they have this mechanism that we can use the lie as a great invention of stabilizing our lives .
and not only in art , even in volcology , in mythology , it appears in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked into the mirror every morning asking him , who &apos;s the most beautiful in the country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility is from this real origin , and the mirror can &apos;t lie , comes from this real origin .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell one woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful one somewhere else .
here &apos;s what we need to understand from policing correctness is to bring it back and forth .
we need this lie at this point that keeps us deception without which we can &apos;t live .
we have not only in art , in which folk k poetry , but in science , such great lies .
and there &apos;s this story about the woman of the bishop of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the origin of man .
that the human being should come from the monkey and , yes , there would be at least one common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran to her husband and said , this is probably not true what charles wrote .
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , no , that &apos;s not possible .
and if it &apos;s true , we need to prevent people from knowing it .
why do we have to prevent people from knowing something if it &apos;s true ?
because without that lie , we can &apos;t live .
because we feel like this self-deception , this feeling of being great , descent from the highest creatures , not from such a natural deception , from something as unpredictable as an organism that still exists to be comparable to a stone and whatever else that is , that &apos;s inexorable to us .
so , we can &apos;t bear these things at all .
we need to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism is resolving and what the traces it leaves behind look like that are based on something but this great picture of ourselves , i want to bring you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came from school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she said about a student .
an autistic student .
she likes it especially because he has a propensity to sincerity .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m in the fire department .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
yeah , you feel it when you &apos;re hotter at that point . there &apos;s something wrong with that .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral framework uses the word because , we should try to replace it through the word .
do that once , and then you learn the sentence .
although i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel , that &apos;s the real truth behind the emergence .
such a little bub that &apos;s not interested in fireflies .
they &apos;re interested in firemen .
but there are no clubs that we can look around where we learn how to do fire .
there &apos;s only the second best part , the fire department .
he signed up there .
and translation , you don &apos;t tell your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere and be happy when the fire gets up afterwards .
no , it just looks much better if we show that we &apos;re involved in eliminating the dangers that others can only get when they &apos;re just putting fire .
here they have this little mechanism .
this evidence that he knew that in the inside of the bub , he was actually related to the fire , but he can &apos;t say that out loud .
here you have this censor between the unconscious and the conscious who immediately jumps without being able to do something about it , and the things you know look very different , so you can make them look much better for you and others .
so just these words happen that we use over and over again in the language of politically correct speech .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we address that , social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
i want to show you what we found at my institute .
after what logic this deception , this self-deception , this willingness , another reality than the one we actually know in the unconscious mind that it &apos;s valid to spread outside .
this is where i want to present to you two , maybe three examples .
the first example requires what many of you know and some of you estimate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean , the soul .
what &apos;s the soul ?
the soul is something like this , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not constion material , material nature .
and if you have people who are in favor of the strong belief that they have a soul , or you can say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought up by the soul to life , imagine that it &apos;s about as if the soul is such a mental framework about them , not out of matter , not out of meat and blood , some stone , so to speak , to the earth &apos;s native , convenient , unimportant , dead it .
and of that soul , you think that it &apos;s kind of present in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , it &apos;s called the latin , the lufthalso .
and then if that air hall is pouring over people , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , yes with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s to get from the outside to the human .
so we &apos;re supposed to think of them as something that &apos;s supposed to be present for our lives .
and if you have this assumption in front of you , you understand the logic that we experience this happiness to improve our world through a lie .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
you still know three paragraph from school .
that &apos;s now a three-sentence that describes a logic .
this is the most difficult part in my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
that is to lie so that you can just get this logic wrong .
in that three-sentence , three sentences occurred .
the first sentence is , claim , there are no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , it doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i highlighted it especially here .
a third sentence that appears immediately in people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they tell who doesn &apos;t have a soul , which is dead , and can &apos;t tell anything .
and here you feel it .
here &apos;s where this logic comes in this , yes , in this deception talk .
you can see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say everything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make any statements about reality .
i can say the canchor is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the canchor is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the canchor is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t tell you what &apos;s going on .
i can say everything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when kler says there &apos;s no soul .
secondly , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically accurate .
and now our fooling consciousness feels immediately , you can do something about it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , which pretend the opposite of the first sentence already proved and assumed .
because in fact , we would have to prove whether there &apos;s the soul or not .
but with this logic that it just uses , that two sentences are logically correct , and it &apos;s a third one that looks like it has to do with it , so we can save our lifespan .
so , we pretend it &apos;s actually impossible to live without a soul .
and we &apos;re very happy about it .
we can continue to do these things in different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that fills newspapers over and over again .
you have to think of another philosophical topic , a permanent killer from philosophy .
this has to do with us coming back to the fourteen century .
there was a scholar called johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel named .
the burian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is such a natural thing .
and if you place the exact act act act act in the middle between two great hairs , it harbors .
because he doesn &apos;t know what haystack to go to first .
so he &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how natural things are imagined .
same great forces with opposite signs of curriculum dissolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing going on at all .
only if you can get another example , so if you can immediately make a pile of them bigger , it doesn &apos;t need any reason , and it doesn &apos;t need anything .
automatically , he &apos;s walking to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re kind of driven in nature , determined by the larger pile that attracts you immediately , you also have to feel that there must be something like free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt , i remember the max planck institute of brain science .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and you sometimes say , wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom for it .
now we can form the second sentence again , and we can say , if wolf is right , he doesn &apos;t have any freedom for it .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper almost every day is that you find in that third sentence .
it looks something like this , who has no freedom of responsibility , can &apos;t be drawn to his actions and claims about responsibility , and it &apos;s therefore unsustainable .
again , you have it again .
in fact , first of all , you have to prove whether there &apos;s something like freedom .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of the deception is wrong , like , of course , you have to take the opposite without evidence .
and now you can just do anything yourself if you want to test anything yourself and , most of all , if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice this , for example , if you meet a human being who you can say there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for predictors , which is prophet .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit of political correct .
say there are no predictors .
immediately , they become one that , of course , makes them more predictable , and you can &apos;t prove that .
and you have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy realizing that you can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived her .
because he led them to a fee where he doesn &apos;t stop himself from happening .
because in fact , this person is not interested in evidence at all .
he &apos;s just interested in having to free himself from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the kind of shift of evidence , you see the brilliance of lying .
and once again , if you have a chance to feel that three-set in other people , you do , because you &apos;re going to make other people happy if you don &apos;t remember them in this way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good afternoon .
i allowed myself , i asked lilly if i could mention them .
she &apos;s one of the subjects here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give my idea .
i have to say , you got it , you got it , i started to love talking about my idea .
and i want to introduce you to my island project that i &apos;m trying to imagine .
but it &apos;s , of course , the sum of many ideas .
i &apos;m probably hearing the two nice girls still there , i &apos;m probably part of the generation who cared about this bad oko image because i &apos;ve already started studying machines in carlsquiet , technical college , i think it &apos;s called kit .
and then it failed me in the mid-80s to berlin because i wanted to make renewables , and that &apos;s not what it was in carlsquiet .
there was the core research facility called leopoldshaven .
that was all kfa , which was called the jewish kfa at the time .
the hot project carriers today .
because a good engineer either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but domain like &apos; n solar pendulum , from which kind of comes out a hundred watts from the square meter , this was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collective .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola for rehabilizing the word again , because after the fall of the wall , you couldn &apos;t use the word anymore because everything on the left was bad .
but in the years , that wasn &apos;t the case .
it was just that there were self-administered alternative businesses , and one of them was sitting in cluzberg in the majority farm where you suspected evil .
place of terrorism , but that was called fuelomonics , and it made wind and solar , and i started in the mid-80s .
and yes , a lot of what i &apos;ve been told today is very touching me because many , many beautiful expressions were there that i &apos;ve also lived through .
i worked in the collective for 11 years , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
if no said it was the vetoprinp , which has completely crushed you , and for 10 years i &apos;ve been hard to doubt whether i &apos;ve been wasting my great engineering study , maybe really , to a jolly thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always talked to him , you &apos;ve always missed the money out to your window .
it &apos;s about weak sense .
and that was really , really bitter , and you come in in in such a phase , and that just appeared to be a picture where i wondered , after 10 years , a thousand d marrow were , which is , you know , basic , longevity in the collective , of course , whether it &apos;s really the great thing to do .
and then i stopped up to six and a half , and then we turned together with friends to become a co-founder of solon , which then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with spin off q-ness .
a huge success story , but also , we have the problem of a growing company again , and we have two thousandsix , a small group , decided we start small again and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next topic of the future , and that means , i think , it &apos;s again crazy , that starts again with people saying what the rubble is supposed to be , what we &apos;re talking about .
and i brought a project with me that i want to introduce you to .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how do you get a hundred percent renewable ?
and we just started asking a relatively simple story , where could you use a memory meaningfully today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azors .
yeah , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people living there .
they have a five percent renewable energy percentage today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t you have that anymore ?
that &apos;s just not technologically possible .
if you put more wind power together , the system starts to fail .
i always tell the politicians when they &apos;re in berlin adlershof our facilities .
they always say , why ?
we already have 20 percent in germany .
now , it can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our web is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island there .
the question was , just calculate that was two thousand in 2006 , the first contacts with the island started , but just do the math .
how big would it have to be such a battery so that you could get an island like 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even 70 percent renewable ?
and yes , i &apos;m going to go back to one slide .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electric power is built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s particularly fast everywhere .
the energy hunger of the world that &apos;s going on is wiped with this el because you don &apos;t need permission .
this is fast .
you put some box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the course of that , three of them always run , two of them are always waited .
yeah , this is what a one sees down there .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind power plant or the solar system or whatever it is is is usually a back-up system or a system that can only store in small quantities here .
our goal was to just say , okay .
this el will be back-up , and the wind , sun will be using load so that they can map the larger percentage .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewables , so energy per year , not the performance right now , you have to turn off the el .
that means , at that moment , you have to make sure that renewables can take over the entire web , in a way .
of course , you can only do that if you &apos;re manned in some way here .
this is not what nobody in the world has done yet .
that &apos;s what &apos;s in a small style , so you can also use your razor in the car over a little tracker .
people always ask me , what are you doing in adlershof ?
that &apos;s already possible .
but if you want to put together several of these interactions and build a web , it gets very complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to come to seventh to ninety percent renewable , and then stay here in this rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , and this is going to be very , very expensive , and it &apos;s not going to work that you do this out of batteries .
this will definitely be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know or sh , that will be it .
they have to go more like a seasonal memory and compare winter summer , not just tag-night .
we just wanted to know what about a normal , stink electrochemical battery .
how far do you get there ?
and then they did a whole bunch of simulations .
and wind and sun simulated , and load came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion that you could get to the conventional system that takes a middle stream at about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour after 20 years , about 40 cents a cent .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , &quot; okay . &quot;
is that great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system if the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulaners .
what would everything have to be done ?
have negotiated investors , i &apos;ve looked for new social sheep .
we were only five people then to rebuild one to rebuild society .
and here &apos;s the representation again .
the brown is , in a way , the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase is that we &apos;re still doing 20 percent with this el and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , the power utility companies on the island , has meant that we think that &apos;s great .
let &apos;s also support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and so we decided to build a hall in berlin where , in a way , we could map the electrical conditions of the island at the scale one to three very carefully .
that means we first looked for the largest battery in the world .
here it is .
it comes from asia , by the way , in the trap of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , she was at bc mannheim , now abb , developed , and then licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see .
it has a megawatt power , and it can bring six hours of that power , and that &apos;s the battery that we kind of got simulating technology out of it .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate that &apos;s the same size that it &apos;s standing there , put it into the hall , to actually simulate the entire dynamic behavior of this web , so in the hall it looks like this now , there &apos;s the big battery behind here , here &apos;s the big battery , all the judges that we simulate the web with .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers of physics of cables , to kind of map the vibrational behavior on the web .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn on the web for two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics .
here we see this again , again , the one more thing we see , all the individual aggregate again .
and what we &apos;ve done since two-thousand-nine , then the hall has finished , until this day , two-thousand-12 basically everything that was developed between the individual system of electronics , of software , is we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery maker , we &apos;re defined as a company that &apos;s only between the battery and the theme of the web and the everything in between .
you have to communicate , of course , to the battery , you have to be able to communicate on the web , and this is very complicated .
the beauty of this island is that basically , on this island today , you can do everything you can do to solve problems we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our percentage of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is it going to move back and forth right now , energy turn , how is it going to go , on the island , for example , we have five to 30 percent excess energy , so we &apos;re tired of the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart grid .
so smart grid , a huge issue everywhere .
we can start integrating electrical mobility on the island before , asking around , you can manage the burden .
that means , if you &apos;re renewable at 17 percent , you &apos;re not going to be able to do it without storage .
you can , through n smart-grid , you can , by building the nets , yes , you should , anyway , do the percentage , but you &apos;ll never be able to completely dispense the memory .
and that &apos;s how n little bit of the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come in and look at it , because you can see what problems you get .
if we turn off that el , you don &apos;t have that rotating mass that causes a certain inertia of the web .
and our european connected web is basically just made up of noisy rotating masses of large power plants , wherever the wave is all around europe .
we look in this web , we see the 50 hertz , and when it becomes ninety-four commma nine hertz , we start making some valves , then a little bit of steam goes in again , we get up again .
this is the system .
and of course , that &apos;s incredible contracts .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the web stable .
and in time , you can react to other people .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with productivity electronics and electrical chemistry .
and we can turn it off two milliseconds with this big battery .
you can see what there are enormous speeds of opportunity there .
and the message is , we need to quote these rotating masses , if we want to , in a way , 20 , 20 , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent and so on , if we want to reach them at all .
then we have to break our must-run capacity on the web .
must-run is just , the power plant is running to keep the frequency .
yeah , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , building coal plants because we don &apos;t otherwise , or gastortary , because it &apos;s not possible .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can break down the capacity , the must-run capacity , by also bringing electrochemical stores to the web .
now , fortunately , there are a whole bunch of studies to this as well .
and then people always come to this purpose and look at our trial level , kind of , our island test .
and yes , the discussion is all about how far you can take a piece of a long future there .
and many discussions i &apos;ve had in the last six years were similar to the discussion i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years on photovoltaics .
don &apos;t go , it &apos;s weak , it &apos;s child toys , we &apos;ve done everything , we &apos;ve never done it .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is presental .
and i just think in the next 30 years , we &apos;re going to have the same capacity of electrochemical storage all over the world .
very simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to happen .
there will be a whole bunch of residents and arguments .
the beauty is that i &apos;ve experienced basically now in the last two years , that the scientists are standing on my side .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects , even to climb 10 megawatt-battery into the german web .
this will happen next april .
so from that , you &apos;re also realizing that there &apos;s a change there and only from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewables , it &apos;s like a self-sufficient system .
so far in discussions , these insulanans , they &apos;re making self-assembly , they &apos;re having a little net , which is with our connection and nothing to do .
the question is , if you &apos;re fully independent of any fossil or uranium energy that &apos;s being drilled out somewhere in the world and brought to you , you &apos;re an island .
then they &apos;re just using what &apos;s there on the sun and the wind where they live .
and that &apos;s a little bit of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle for saying they use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and as far as we come , premium kola &apos;s talk is that you can be a collective again and use solar energy , here &apos;s a little bit of it .
and yes , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little crazy and also have a vision .
and you really have to stay quite tough about it , but i think it &apos;s going to be possible .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist of the los angeles times , went through the streets at the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin that had only two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steves articles about it , later , a book that was filmed again , with robert downey junior when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassists who studied the juilliard conservatory and whose promising career was tragically ended by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later he lived as homeless people on the streets of skid row at the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steves book or to see the movie so that not only did you understand the wonderful connection that was born between these two men , but also how music helped make that connection , and how it was the instrument when that word game is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel &apos;s way off the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in walt disney smooth hall .
he had just heard a performance by beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony and came behind the stage to imagine .
he spoke in a very hot and social note about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton , and how the dodgers would never get into the baseball world series , and all of this because of the first violin passage in the last sentence by beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
we came up with the theme of music , and a few days later i got an email saying nathaniel was interested in my own education .
i have to mention that nathaniel was rejecting medical care because he had already been treated with electric shocks and thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that pursued him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic stages , which are sometimes so bad , and he disappears for days , going around the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and the torture jellyfish of his own mind .
and in the same way , nathaniel was at the same time that we started our first lesson in walt disney art hall , and he had this irre flatter in his eyes and worked completely out .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how somebody wanted to poison him in his sleep .
i was afraid , not opinion , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could sink into one of his states , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin if i started talking about pitches and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic self-educators .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence by beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and as i was playing , i noticed that in nathanian &apos;s eyes , a complete change was happening .
it was like standing under the impact of an invisible doctor , a chemical reaction whose catalyst was my game .
nathaniels manic anger turned into understanding that quiet curiosity and courage .
and as through a miracle , he took his violin and he started playing some clips of violin concerts , and then he asked me to end them : menu son , tshaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pekka salons .
and i realized that he had not just an encyclopedic knowledge about music , but he connected it to a close personal relationship .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i used to know only about my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , a loving , educated , excellent , trained musician in juilliard .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his torture states .
i understood that this is the nature of art .
that &apos;s why we make music : so that we can do something that &apos;s deep inside all of us , our feelings , through our artistic lens , can actually shape through our creativity .
and the reality of that expression is that everybody reaches us , and moves , inspired and united .
in nathaniel &apos;s case , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the redemption of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood his talent and paid attention to him .
and i &apos;m going to keep making music with nathaniel , whether it &apos;s in the walt disney mind , hall or skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something i inevitably stole the cellist .
i hope you forgive me .
so i knew a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , that was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tastes , good consistency , meaningful , a best seller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , it was grown in aquulture after the most supposed standards of sustainability .
so you could probably feel like you could sell it .
i had a relationship with that beauty for several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could tell at an event about the sustainability of the farm .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company that was trying to solve what this unimaginable problem has become for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menus ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beat forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish we love , the tunas , the heal but , the smiling , swordfish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so probably or evil aquulture , fisheries , will be part of our future .
many arguments about it . fish pollution the environment , most of you anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , let &apos;s take tuna . a big disadvantage .
it has a 15 to one feeding value .
that means that 15 pounds of wild fish are needed to get a pound of zulu tuna .
not very sustainable .
not very tasty either .
so here was finally a company that was trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
don , i said , &quot; just to have the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the sea that you don &apos;t pollution the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of our own .
this is a food processing from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one what ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . set up .
and that night i lay in bed , and i thought , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day i called , just before the event , don .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t you , for example , are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask .
well , i telephone with a few people in the company , and nobody could give me a decent answer until i finally telephone with the senior biologist .
let &apos;s also call it don .
don , i said , &quot; what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yeah , feathers , skin , bone flour , remains , dried and processed to feed . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the assumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken of fish ? &quot;
there was a long break in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
i loved this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-esteem and a gutter .
this is me .
no , i actually loved this fish because , you know , i swear to god , who &apos;s smashed fish after this conversation to chicken .
that second fish , that &apos;s a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way in which , the better you learn your fish , you love the fish more .
i ate it in a restaurant first in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s kind of wired us up .
he came up with a bright , almost glowing white color .
the chef had cooked it .
hold twice .
amazingly , it was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it &apos;s been cooked ?
i can &apos;t do it , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . in fact , it &apos;s called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and it &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevation in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the coin of the river guadalquivir .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they grew meat cattle on what was basically wetlands .
they did that by dewatering the country .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they wiped out water from the country and out in the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make sure that worked , not economically .
and green , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which are many birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental awareness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of water .
they literally replaced the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they escaped the channels .
they created a 11,000 hectares of fish -- bark , marine , shrimp , aal -- and miguel and his company have completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they stare out on the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see is curated channels and this dense , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there long ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to the kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were , fighting us through the wetlands and i sweat , having power to my knees , and holding miguel in quiet a biology lecture .
here it highlights a rare glider .
now he &apos;s mentioning the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , here he sees a pattern of strands that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know anything about fish .
i &apos;m an expert on relationships . &quot;
and then it goes and falls into more talk about rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had the before .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish taste so good ? &quot;
he pointed to the algae .
&quot; i know boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what &apos;s the food value ? &quot;
well , he goes on to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , that &apos;s what the fish feed .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-replicating .
there &apos;s no food .
depending on a farm that doesn &apos;t feed your animals ?
later on the day , i went around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at that moment , it was like a film director demanded a stage change .
and we bent around the corner , and we offered the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , a literally pink carpet so far as the eye is .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your bellies , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you drag your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish to the birds .
well , last year , on this site , there were 600,000 birds , over 250 different species .
it &apos;s now the largest and one of the most important private reserves in all of europe .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving avian population not the last one you want to have on a fish elevator ? &quot;
he shook his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re growing productive , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the more pink the belly the system is better . &quot;
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals and a farm that measures its success on the health of its predators .
a fish elevator , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos should not even be there .
they breed in a city 240 kilometers away , where the soil nature is better for nest maintenance .
every morning they fly to the farm at a mile .
and every night they fly back 240 kilometers .
they do this because they can follow the striped white line in the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of penguin journey , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly to the farm for 240 miles , and then fly you back at night ?
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . they do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention my beloved fish skin , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it sucked . i don &apos;t like it crunchy .
it &apos;s this joyful , charged taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried to take her to this restaurant in southern spain , she didn &apos;t shrink her to fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you took a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he nodded .
he said , &quot; the skin works like a sponge .
she &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
it &apos;s evolved over evolution to look at contaminants . &quot;
and then he added up , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any contaminants . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success on its predators &apos; success .
and then i realized when he says he has a farm that has no contaminants , he underflows tremendous because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the river of guadalquir .
it &apos;s a river that leads all the things that rivers today tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it &apos;s fought through the system , and this leaves the water clean than it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not only a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals , not just a farm that measures its success on its predators &apos; health , but a farm that &apos;s literally a water support plant , and not just for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i take it , and you should do that , because this love story , as romantic as it is , is also inferior .
you might say it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radically new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for many people , that &apos;s a little too radical .
we &apos;re not realistic , we &apos;re safer . we &apos;re lovers .
we love farmers &apos; markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say these are the things that insure the future of good food is somebody somewhere up and says , &quot; hey people , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how are they going to feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
no , not because we &apos;re producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
one billion people will starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crisis inequalities in distribution , not in total production .
well , i don &apos;t like that question because it &apos;s determined the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feeding grain of herbivores , pests of monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken to fish , and all the time the agribusiness has just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the reason . it was the justification . it was the business plan in american agriculture .
we should call them what it is , an ad in abundance , an industry that ecologically ecological capital that allows that production to happen .
this is not a industry , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our cornchamber is threatened today , not because of declining , but because of decommissioning resources .
not through the latest powers and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaw , but through forests , not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
they want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start by asking the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model of the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are at top of it , and it never really produced anything good for food .
let &apos;s look at the ecological model instead .
this is what goes back to two billion years of work .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
operational businesses that are not worlds , are operating businesses that are restoring instead of restoring , are operating businesses that are growing productive instead of just intense , farmers who are not only producers , but experts on relationships .
because they &apos;re the ones who are also experts on taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , i &apos;m right , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it &apos;s going to be delicious .
thank you .
if i want to make you approach one thing today , it &apos;s that the total data that we consume is larger than the sum of your parts , and instead of thinking about information overload , i want you to think about how we can use information , that patterns make up and we recognize trends that would otherwise not have been visible .
so , what we see here is a typical sterile diagram ordered by age .
the program i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , say accidents .
and immediately , i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle here , people are most active and they &apos;re most charged over here .
we can go one step further and then rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , when we go on and sorrow after age , say 40 years or younger , we see that accidents are even the main thing people should worry about .
and if you look at research , this is particularly true of men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way , it &apos;s very much reminded of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
what we have here is the cover of every single sports illustrates , which have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after i speak in your rooms .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
they can dive in into a particular year .
they can jump directly to a particular issue .
now , when i look at this , i see the athletes that appear in this issue and the sports species .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong , so i click on this , and i show all the spending that lance armstrong is mentioned .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , could i think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything about biking ? &quot;
so i go back and i take a step back , and i take a look at that .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea of how , if you go through this kind of information , more targeted , broader , zoom out , you don &apos;t look for it or you don &apos;t just surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little different .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
i want to do this idea a little bit further with something like what &apos;s a little crazy .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediaset and reduced it to a little summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipedias .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the issues that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose government &apos;s topic .
now , after i elect government , i realize that the wikipediacatories that are most covering are time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important because this is a realization that &apos;s not in a single wikipediaset .
this is just to see if you go back and look at the whole thing .
looking at a particular one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see them all together .
now , if i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science . some , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you can see we &apos;re surfing the web for the first time that it &apos;s really a web , not just from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that could be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just going to show you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can go back to a step , and jump directly to a specific section .
that &apos;s important because you can only look at websites in this way by looking at the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in in in my trajectory in a certain time frame .
here &apos;s the state of the whole demonstration i &apos;ve given here before .
and i can bring back , in some sense , everything i &apos;ve looked at so far .
and if i take a step out and look at everything , i can rearrange my process after my search past , and here , i &apos;ve been looking for &apos; nepotistic , &apos; here for bing , &apos; or goodbye to live labs .
and from here , i can go into the page and call it up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the whole picture bigger than the sum of the data array .
right now , in this world , we think data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information flow .
we &apos;re talking about drowning in information .
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet upside down , so that instead of always going from one to the other , we started to be able to go from many things to many things , and by seeing patterns that would have remained most hidden ?
if we can do that , this data trap will become a new source of meaningful information .
and instead of just moving into information , we can get this .
and if we know , maybe we can even pull out wisdom .
i stop , thank you very much .
i grew up with a hearing portion of science fiction .
in my school , i went to school with the bus every day , one hour per track .
and my nose always put my nose in a book , a science fiction book , which kidnapped my thoughts into other worlds and satisfied my deep , insatiable curiosity in me .
this curiosity also showed that if i wasn &apos;t in school , i went through forests and collected samples and frogs and snakes and beetles and beetles and dough water all brought home and looked under the microscope .
i was completely science excited , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and expose the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that animals and places and a world of wonder we &apos;ve never imagined before .
that probably went quite well to that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was no video games or overseas with computer generated movies or all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to . when we read a book as a child , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my response to that was to draw and paint aliens , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that kind of thing .
in math education , i was always caught by the teacher , i hid , hiding in the back textbook .
creativity had to stop .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteal shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on earth itself .
i certainly would never reach an alien world with a spaceship , and that seemed pretty unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was as fascinating and exotic as all the things i had always imagined when i read these books .
so i decided , when i was 15 , to become diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , a thousand kilometers from the next ocean .
i didn &apos;t get away from that .
i annoyed my father until he finally made a diving school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my dive in a pool of ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i got face only two years later when we moved to california .
since , in the 40 years that have now been striking , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of it in submersibles .
and i learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the flat oceans , is as rich as we can really barely imagine .
nature &apos;s imagination doesn &apos;t know boundaries , unlike our own , bright human imagination .
to this day , i feel deep awe of what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean keeps in the same intensity as eh and ever .
then when i looked for a profession as an adult , it was about filming .
this seemed the best way to tell my inner urge to tell stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a child , i was constantly drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories , and that fit together .
of course , the stories i was looking for were from the science fiction area : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
at &quot; abyss , &quot; i could connect my preference for the underwater world , and diving to the filmmaking .
so my two passions kind of intertwined .
something interesting happened at abyss : to solve a narrative problem in this movie -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water -- we took care of computer generated animation , cg , back .
what came out of this was the first computer generated software surfing figure ever to see in a movie .
now , the movie didn &apos;t bring in money , and in fact , he was just playing his cost of production , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went out of it .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , it &apos;s known to be advanced technology and magic no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and that &apos;s what i found incredibly exciting .
and i thought , &quot; wow , this must be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next movie , much further .
together with ilm , we created the guy in liquid metal , and the success depended on how this effect would happen .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve already played a little bit more money with the movie .
from these two experiences , a whole new world had reached , a whole new world of creativity for film creators .
so i started a company called digital domain with my good friend stan winston , who was the best make-up and creator designer at that time .
the basic idea of this company was to skip over the phase of analog processes with optical printers and start with digital productions .
we did that , and we created a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid-1990s , we realized that in the creature- and cell design -- which we had actually started the company too slowly .
i had written this piece of &quot; avatar , &quot; which was going to push the pole in visual effects and computer generated effects all over new heights with realistic human , expressive characters made using cg , and the main figures should all be cg . and the world should be cg .
but the measured pole was pretty much back , and the people in my company told me we were not able to do that yet .
so i shifted that and made this other film about the big ship , which is going on .
i sold this as a film studio called &quot; romeo and julia on a ship . &quot; it became a love movie of epic order , a passionate movie .
but secretly , i actually wanted to go down to the real wreck of the titanic .
that &apos;s why i made the movie .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know .
but i convinced them , by saying , &quot; we dive to the wreck . we film the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the movie .
that &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good tag for marketing . &quot;
and i talked to her to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but this is back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later where i found myself in a russian submersible , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bulleye .
this was not a movie , no hd , this was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
and the preparations for that were enormous . we had to build cameras and light lights and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much these deep sea gears resembled a space mission .
well , they were also high-tech and high-tech planning .
you get into that capsule , you float down into this dark , hostile environment where there &apos;s no hope for rescue if you don &apos;t recreate it yourself .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s as if i &apos;m in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was obsessed with studying the deep sea .
anyway , the part that had to do with curiosity and science was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature for which we could then design a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i was going to see outside the window .
some of the expeditions i &apos;ve seen in thermal sources , and sometimes things i had never seen before , sometimes things that had never seen before , and for science at the time that we saw , had no words at all .
so that really dropped me around , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of titanic , i said to myself , &quot; okay , i want to put my main profession as a filmmaker in hollywood and i &apos;m going to go to ice for a while . &quot;
and then we started diving to the bismarck , and we explored them with robotic experiences .
we returned to the titanic wreck .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped up a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
nobody had ever explored the inside of the wreck , and they had no resources for it , so we developed the technology necessary .
and i &apos;m sitting there now on the deck of the titanic , in a submersible , and i &apos;m planning to see these brakes quite similar , and i know that once the band has played there .
and i fly through the gears with a little robotic experience of the gear of the ship .
now , i actually only dictate it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically involved in the titanic shipping wreck .
this was the most surreal form of a déjlike vu i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bow around a corner , i &apos;ve always known what would appear right around the light cone of the vehicle , because i walked over the movie for months when we made the film .
because the set was an accurate copy of the building plans of the ship .
so that was a highly strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use such robotic avatars and so your consciousness into the vehicle that you can put into this other form of existence .
it was really profound .
and maybe also , a little bit of a look at what might happen in a few decades if you have cyborg bodies to explore or to do other things in all kinds of post-human futures that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we really started to appreciate what we saw down there , like these deep sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , and these are kind of aliens , but here on earth .
they live with chemosynthesis help .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , as we do .
and so you can see animals right next to a 500 degrees centigrade that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was again the science fiction influence from my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who were interested in space and who were involved in nasa and who were sitting in nasa and planning real space missions and planning real space missions . they &apos;re going to russia , going through the mission of the biomedical protocol , everything , and then flying to the international space station and taking our 3d camera system .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of the day , it was that i took space scientists to the deep sea with us .
i took them with me and sheep them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we did documentary films , but actually science , more specifically , space science .
so the circle between my existence closed as a science fiction fan , at the time as a child , and the implementation into reality .
over the course of that voyage of discovery , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i certainly think you can have a director also , a leader must be like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much about leadership until i joined these expeditions .
because at some point , i had to tell myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what does that come out ? &quot;
these stupid movies don &apos;t bring us money .
we &apos;re just playing the cost of production . no trace from fame .
everybody thinks i was running away from titanic to avatar somewhere , and i would have celebrated the nails on a towel on the beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentary films , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
you do it for the task , for the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that &apos;s there . you do it for the discovery of space , and because of the strange connection that comes from a small group of people forming a team .
because we did all of this with just 10 to 12 people who worked together uninterrupted for years , sometimes we were on sea for two to three months .
and in this community , you can see that the most important thing is the attention you have in front of each other because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to any other person .
if you come back to land and you say , &quot; we had to do it , the fiberglass , the shellglass , and the whole thing about it , the whole technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you work on sea , &quot; you can &apos;t explain the other one . this is like in policemen or in soldiers who have gone through something together and you know you can never explain it .
there &apos;s a connection , there &apos;s a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next movie &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership style , which is that you respect your team and deserve yourself in the opposite of respect .
so the dynamic was really changed .
so i was standing there with a little team on unknown terrain . we were doing &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that hasn &apos;t been around before .
incredibly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half year period .
so my way of making films completely changed .
there were people who thought we &apos;d done really well and transported these oceans to the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a principle way of doing my job , the actual process that changed .
so what can we do from all of this ?
what lessons did we learn ?
i think the first thing is curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human trait .
our imagination is a force that can actually create a reality .
and your team &apos;s attention is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
i come to young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a advice about how to do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t limit yourself .
get others for you . don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t bet against yourself . take risks on you . &quot;
nasa has a favorite sentence like this : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in studying , failure has to be an alternative , because that &apos;s where it guarantees a trust shot .
no important endeavor that innovation demanded was ever addressed without risk .
you have to be willing to take risks like this .
that &apos;s the idea i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m going to talk to you about energy and climate .
and this may surprise you something , because my full-time work at the foundation is all about vaccines and seeds , about the things we need to invent and deliver to make the poorest two billion a better life .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone else on the planet .
climate degradation means that their strings will not grow over many years , we will not rain too much or too little , and things will change the way their fragile environment can &apos;t change .
this leads to starvation deaths . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to riots .
so , climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle is very important for them .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing , to reduce poverty would be energy at far the most effective .
well , the energy cycle fell over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
kohler evolution was driving the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case of electricity , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , climate conditioners , we can make modern materials and do so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price down -- we hit a new barrier , and this barrier is related to co2 .
co2 warms the planet , and co2 equation is actually quite clear .
they accuse the emitted co2 that leads to temperature increases , and that temperature increases has some very negative consequences , effects on the weather , and perhaps worse , the indirectly that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to change that rapid , and so whole systems collapse .
well , the exact relationship between a carbon rise and the result of that is temperature change and where others are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these will follow , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists a few times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
isn &apos;t it enough to half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to rise .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 meter truck that has to come from a three-foot bridge , and then you can kind of squeeze that under a three-foot bridge .
this has to be down to the bottom , to zero .
well , we &apos;re emitting a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons of carbon .
every american person , about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow , we need to create changes that reduce that to zero .
it &apos;s been constant .
just different economic changes have influenced it at all , and we need to go from rising and reducing and reducing to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 -- that you want to get to zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , on the services every human being uses on average , the average energy for every service and co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at every factor and think about how we get that to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s heading towards nine billion . it &apos;s moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we could probably reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we &apos;re seeing a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services we use .
that includes everything we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services accessible to almost everybody on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number goes up .
in the rich world , in the top billion , we could probably dispute and use less , but on average , that number will rise every year , and so the total total will double , the number of services that are provided per person .
here we see a very basic service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street .
well , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of different successes in the light sector , through different autotypes , through new ways of building houses , there are many services whose energy services some of them are reduced by 90 percent .
in other services , like fertilizer production , 105 : 05 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; em &amp; gt ; &amp; lt ; / em &amp; gt ;
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a factor three or maybe even by a factor six .
but the first three factors , we &apos;ve now gone from 26 billion to maybe most test 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough !
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this will be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
it &apos;s a question of whether you can get this to zero .
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emitts co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to do at a global level is create a new system .
we need energy wonder .
now , when i use the term &quot; wonder , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its services is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these wonders .
there &apos;s usually no deadline that you need a miracle to a particular date .
you know , you &apos;re just wrong , and some of you are not .
but in this case , we need to give full gas and get a miracle in very short time .
well , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks people &apos;s imagination here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible to you , you know , there are people living with mosquitos .
i noticed this for energy .
i decided that releasing fireflies would be my this year &apos;s contribution to the environment here .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i &apos;ve been told they &apos;re not biting . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
well , there are all kinds of playful solutions like this , but they all don &apos;t bring much .
we need solutions , either one or several , that have an unimaginable scaling and unimaginable reliability , and although there are many directions where people are looking for them , i really only see five that can afford these big demands .
i &apos;ve left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
they may do a modern contribution , and if they did better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give any of them up because they intimidate us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there seems simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the scarf after burning , under pressure , and then store somewhere , and hope it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent -- 80 percent level , but it &apos;s going to be very difficult to get 100 percent , and getting an agreement on co2 storage is a big challenge . but the biggest problem here is salmon timing .
who &apos;s going to make it safe ?
who can guarantee something , which is literally many billion times larger than any kind of garbage you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
so that &apos;s a hard nut .
next is nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulated countries , is high , and the question of security is that you can really feel that nothing can go wrong despite the human contribution that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns about it .
so three very difficult problems that may be solvable , and that &apos;s why you should work on .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s renewables , as they &apos;re often called renewables .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one , the energy density that these technologies are dramatically lower than power plants .
these are energy sheets , you talk about many square kilometers , a thousand times more space than a normal power station .
and these sources are also underlying interruptions .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t seem to be waking every day , and the wind doesn &apos;t always hurt .
so if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have a way to get the energy even in times if it &apos;s not available .
so there are big challenges here . there are challenges to transmit , for example , when we say that the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you need to deal with the risk of where the energy comes from elsewhere .
and there &apos;s the problem of storage .
and to show the dimension , i looked at all kinds of batteries that are made : those for cars , computers , flashlights , for everything , and i compared that to the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing could now store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be 100 by a factor of 100 better than the approaches at the moment .
that &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources about 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
if you want to support by 100 percent , you need an incredible magic battery .
now , where should we go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
in many , you &apos;ll say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are many people in the ted group who are already involved in this .
bill gross has several companies , among other things , one called esolar has great solar panels .
vinod khosla investes in dozens of companies that do great things and have interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i fund a company that , maybe surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
there are some innovations in the nuclear area ; modular , liquid .
the development has stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are around .
the terrapower-concept means that instead of part of the uranium , one percent , u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , which is u238 .
that &apos;s a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you had been thinking about this for a long time , but you could never reasonably simulate whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes ! in the right materialistic approach , it looks like it works .
and because you burn that 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can even use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a propulsion .
instead of breaking your head , you just burn it . great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see it &apos;s a kind of column , often called a &quot; traveling wave reactor . &quot;
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you have the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called the utility of uranium .
the drive is on the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you just make ocean water cheap and just filtering , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s lifetime .
you know , there are many challenges left , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal we need to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
it &apos;s really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be created in the poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully waldropping and cement will be clean until then .
so to reach these 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely remove its electricity generation .
the other note says whether we &apos;re using zero emissions technology , whether it &apos;s used in all developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to get it to the rest of it .
that &apos;s super important .
that becomes a key element of this testimony .
if we go back from there , what should it look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the effects on how to reduce reduction , and the less we emitter , the smaller the carbon sum is going to be , and the more temperature is going to be .
but in fact , this note of the things we do that don &apos;t lead to the big reductions completely , or even a little less important than the others that represent the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
we need to track these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure that in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are many great books on this topic .
the al gore book is &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &quot; sustainable energy flow from the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it and create a framework where this can be discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there &apos;s something that has to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you allowed me just one wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose this wish , which is , halved energy cycle , which is , i think , without co2 , will be able to take that wish .
this one has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the dig between long-term and short-term thinking people will get terrible between the united states and china , between poor and rich country , and almost all of the lives of these two billion will be much worse .
so what do we need to do ?
what are i appealing to ?
we need to use ourselves for more research money .
if countries meet in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
they should talk about this innovation strategy , and they would be shocked by the ridiculously low funds spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market tire , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete , and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s a very important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
thank you .
thank you . thank you !
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of that investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the great scientists what we &apos;ve done , we just need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 1000s .
the hard step is to build the first reactor to find another billion , the regularians and the place that actually builds the first one .
once the first one is done , when it runs like promises , everything is clear , because the economy , the energy density is so different from nuclear energy as we know it .
to understand that , that means building deep into the ground , almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , that consumer urine , and then the process starts working up and down ?
bg : right . today you have to refill the reactor , so there are a lot of people and a lot of controls who can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and bring things in -- or out . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it in for 60 years -- think about a column -- that they buried without all the complexities .
and it &apos;s sitting there burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
a nuclear reactor that provides a solution to the waste itself .
bg : yeah . well , what happens to the waste is you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less waste with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you can burn it on .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists , that &apos;s in these cooling basins or dry containers , in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we &apos;re going to fill in , and that &apos;s what &apos;s going to dramatically reduce waste volume during this process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where &apos;s the biggest interest in really doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet set ourselves in a place , and there are a lot of interesting openness rules for everything that the nuclear agenda has on it . there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china , i was here , and i met the energy eminent , and i talked about how this fits the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese have done something in the direction .
this is a variation of a thing that was done .
this is a very important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so anyone who &apos;s implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first one .
in your mind , time-frame and probability to really call something like this ?
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , utilizing things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then to use 20 years .
this is kind of the deadline that has shown us the environmental models we need to stop .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything is going well , and that &apos;s a big wish , it could easily hold it .
and luckily , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds of companies that , just like the way their approaches work , can help promote their pilots .
and it would be best if you could get multiple , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
does the great breakthroughs we can do , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important .
it would have been without the environmental challenge , but it still makes it so much more important .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know what they &apos;re doing , but there &apos;s the modular method , that &apos;s a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor guy that seems a little bit difficult , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different , but the beauty of this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as it has , say , a coal molecule , and so , if you can deal with the problems , and that &apos;s mostly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , the potential , is the impact on the country and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , what does it work ?
do we have to introduce emergency action to try to keep the earth &apos;s temperature stable ?
bg : when you come to this situation , it &apos;s like you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re standing just in front of a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research direction called geoengineering , which is about different techniques to delay warming so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to run together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work on insurance at all because you might do it lazy so that you eat weight , because you know you &apos;re going to save heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you think about the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s now a discourse in geoengineering about whether to have this available if things are getting faster , or this innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate maskeptics : do you have one or two sentences for those to convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say there &apos;s negative effects to do with the clouds that move things around ?
there are very , very few things you can even say , there &apos;s a chance in a million of them .
the main problem here is similar to aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay a lot of later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you have only later -- and to make the investment not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who are looking at ipcc and saying , &quot; okay , this is not a big drama . &quot;
the fact is that this uncertainty should worry about us .
but my dream here is that if you can make it economic , and at the same time you can remove co2 , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it emitting co2 , i wish it was almost that it was doing it , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the bjvillages lomborg argument that if you use all that time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer from it , the poverty reduction , the fighting of malaria and so on , there &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than you do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
among them , other things shouldn &apos;t suffer .
you come to big sums of money , and here you can disagree with reasonable people if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you &apos;re trying to fund it , and for me , most of the waste is happening .
unless you &apos;re very short before a breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , i think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the waste you get is a very high energy cycle , only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle .
but for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
his new stomach is now : &quot; why no longer is research being reviewed ? &quot;
he &apos;s still going to be associated with the skepticist camp because of his earlier stories , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so he &apos;s going to make the research argument .
and this is a thought i think is appropriate .
research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m talking for almost all the people here when i say that i really hope your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman introduced a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest possible free structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter tape , about a meter of thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard because it urges people to work together very quickly .
and so i thought that was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50-company , and there &apos;s something about this task that gives deep impressions into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share with you some of them .
most people usually start orienting themselves in terms of the task .
they talk about what it &apos;s going to look like , they run around .
then you spend a little bit of time in planning and organization , sketching and putting spaghetti out .
they spend most of their time in assembling constantly growing structures .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , somebody takes the marshmallow , and you put it gently on the top , step back , and &quot; ta-da &quot; ! admire your work .
but then what happens almost always is that the ta-da is becoming a uh-oh because the weight of the marshmallows causes the whole thing to bend and fall .
there are a number of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst , fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused and they &apos;re really drunk .
and of course , there are teams who have much more ta-da shapes , and under the best , fresh graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they &apos;re not only producing the highest towers , but they &apos;re also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is , how is that ? why is that ? what about them ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fighting .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok ?
and then realizing it .
what happens then when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what kindergarten kids do differently is they start with the marshmallow and build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so they have a multi-fold chance to fix bloody prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as a core of an iterative process .
and with every trial , kids get immediate feedback about what works and what doesn &apos;t work .
so the performance of working with prototypes is a lot -- but let &apos;s see how different teams act .
most of them are about 50 inches , bwl students create half of them , lawyers a little more , but not much , kindergarten children are better than adults .
who &apos;s most successful ?
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one foot is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-amplifying geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos is a little over average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is that happening ?
because they have special skills of processing .
they lead the process , you understand it .
and that team that rules and looks at work will significantly improve the performance of the team .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
now i tried something interesting .
i thought we &apos;d bring the poker operation in a minute .
so i offered a $ 10,000 prize in software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not one team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a three-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
we repeated this exercise with the same students .
what do you think happened now ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
so from the same bad team , one under the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us , about nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would somebody actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual games .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
the challenge is to have a shared experience , or a common language , or basic , to build the right prototype .
and that &apos;s the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested in it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see the marshmallows being built .
there &apos;s a step-by-step manual there .
you find crazy examples from around the world , how people optimize and retrain the system .
there are also world records .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a committing sport .
it demands that we &apos;re all doing our senses on the task and that we &apos;re using our thinking optimal , like our feelings and our doing , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a small prototype of this experience is all it takes to get us from a uh-oh to a ta-da moment .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
we pretend we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and this is a time machine .
and everybody in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what they would choose because i &apos;ve asked my friends this question a lot recently , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to the time before there was cars or twitter or america is looking for the superstar .
i don &apos;t know .
i believe that you &apos;ve kind of moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and i don &apos;t want to because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because opportunities on the planet don &apos;t go back , they go forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time that they &apos;ve ever been on the planet , no matter what scale they &apos;re doing : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease rates .
there &apos;s never been a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents urged that number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heels .
so there should be a nine of them at the beginning of my death .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because that &apos;s a bigger thing than that .
a child who can be born in new delhi today expects to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox has killed billions of people on the planet .
they reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we forced them . phew .
in the rich world , there are diseases that millions of us have yet to be threatened only one generation , barely yet .
diphtery , roteln , child paralysis ...
does anyone remember what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , are the successes of the scientific method .
and from my point of view , the scientific method of trying to figure things out , see if it works , it changes if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements of humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , that &apos;s all the good news , because there are a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world go hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastate this world .
drinking water , urgent land , rainforests , oil , gas : they &apos;re disappearing , and if we don &apos;t innovate from this chaos , we &apos;re also disappearing .
so the question is , can we do that ? i think we can do that .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that &apos;s going to feed billions of people without raping the country they live on .
i think we can power this world that doesn &apos;t destroy it at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder .
but this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never used scientific progress as we are , never .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can today .
we &apos;re on the threshold of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think we need to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we fought progress , where we &apos;ve driven about these things more fiercely than now .
people are hiding in their faith , so tightly that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will free it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to their opinion of progress .
but you know what they &apos;re not right about ?
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; &quot; sorry , they don &apos;t .
and i took a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccination for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to bump into resistance in resistance to what is at the end of the most effective activity in human health care .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did whatever i always do , i wrote an article , and i continued .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetic engineering .
same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought this was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought molecules were moving around in a certain way rather than a random way , a handle was in nature .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i kept going .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we reach in , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and finally i found out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics , who made me crazy , were not fanatics at all .
these were careful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that brought me down like this ...
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we got to the point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship with progress as we used to .
we &apos;re talking about twins .
we &apos;re talking ironic about it , with little leaders around it , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we have confidence in institutions , in authority , and sometimes lost in science , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
you can just call some names and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , viox , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought they were always right . so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask evidence , ask for evidence .
take nothing but granted .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you have evidence , you have to take this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say that because we &apos;re living in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen them before , and hopefully we &apos;ll never see again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the masses , mumps , and roteln vaccine .
very scary .
studies were done in a way to see if that was true .
well , studies should be done ; this is a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no connection .
it doesn &apos;t matter . it doesn &apos;t matter because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we believe we see , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government official who gives us data , and i understand that , i think , we all do that .
but you know what ?
the result was catastrophic .
disastrous because of that fact , the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccinators are falling for masses .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do that .
because does anyone here have masses ?
did one in the audience ever see anyone die of masses ?
doesn &apos;t happen very often .
this country doesn &apos;t happen at all , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths by masses , 20 per hour .
but because that didn &apos;t happen here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem the same , but almost never the same .
and this is something we need to learn , and very quickly .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of the worst minds in humanity .
don &apos;t fear , not source , child paralysis , phew , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a few other people .
he can save the lives of 4,000 , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , except for paul to walk around and talk about vaccines and say how valuable they are , and people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
if paul talks in a public listen , he can &apos;t tell without armed watchmen .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that you know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
if you keep going , the diseases go back , terrible diseases , and that &apos;s what &apos;s happening .
we have masses in this country now .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon kids will die of it , because that &apos;s just a matter of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commander of mine wrote me a few weeks ago , and she said i think i &apos;m a little bit too shrill .
nobody said it before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against paralysis . no way .
fine .
why ? because we don &apos;t have child paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody in lagos this morning went on an airplane and they &apos;re flying to los angeles right now , they &apos;re over ohio .
and in a few hours , he ends up renting a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to harbor in lies . we love that .
did you take all your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidants that help them jump .
i know they did that because half of the americans do it every day .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cures , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find them to be useless .
the data is constantly showing this .
they evaporate their urine . almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you &apos;d like to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i agree with you all .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate a too strong government . we have no trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our health care system is mies .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely amazing cold and blessing ourselves to be able to afford .
so we &apos;re going away from that , and where are we going ?
we &apos;re going into the arms of placebo industries .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because the stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what cares ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because i don &apos;t care whether it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; well , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or any cancer quacksalber who wants to treat his patients with caffe-in-the-shelf .
if you go on that way , where belief and magic replace and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beds , bone blouts and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs , which we know can slow down the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that &apos;s checked worse than any other disease .
please don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
well , the most brainless epidemic we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the proponents of genetic food and the bio-elite .
that &apos;s an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice , every branch of petersily , every rosecop , was changed by the people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantaloupei melon .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t work .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can do it more closely . and of course , there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people extende their lives .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand .
we reject food technically .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is : too many chemicals , pesticides , hormonoculture , monoculture , we don &apos;t want a huge field with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent life .
we don &apos;t want companies to own seeds .
and you know what my answer to all of this is ?
yeah , you &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
that has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know , science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do its work because we &apos;re afraid we &apos;re a real dead end , and it keeps millions of people flourishing .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa in the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
they need that , and we don &apos;t give them that .
and why ? genetically modified food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotted stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s about a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all of this stuff in it .
and then people could eat this , and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
they wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be beautiful . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say about that is , why do we fight that ?
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why do we fight that ?
because we don &apos;t want to push genes around ?
it &apos;s not about shooting genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence on larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s becoming the highest time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we continue to do that , we &apos;re guilty of something we want to be guilty of , i think , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really need to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go to this ridiculous time machine and the future ? &quot;
anyway , i want that anyway .
right now , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to go .
we need to have these conversations , and we need to think , but as we get into the time machine , and as we go into the future , we &apos;re going to be glad to have done that .
i know we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
for some time , i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless they look at it the way i do it , as &quot; a deception that becomes real if somebody believes only enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , and that &apos;s why the person thinks what &apos;s happening to them is a pharmaceutical or a kind of ... in pain management , for example , if the patient believes solid enough , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
a deception becomes something real because somebody perceives it that way .
so to understand each other , i want to show you a fundamental , very simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that &apos;s at least since the 1950s in every magic book for kids .
i learned him from the cub scout magic of the paddfinder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife you can study ; my hand you can study .
i &apos;m just going to hold the knife in my fault .
i push my sleeves back .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to push my wrist right here .
that &apos;s how you can see that no time can move anything , and as long as i present to you here , nothing can go to my sleeves or come out of it .
and the goal here is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully if everything goes well , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually so stuck in his place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes to my sleeves or comes out , no trickiness . and you can study everything .
ta-da !
well , this is a trick i often teach to young kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception if you look more closely , even though it &apos;s a very easy trick .
many of you in the room probably know this trick .
it works like this .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i surround my wrist to make sure that nothing will disappear or come out of my sleeves , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because it &apos;s the actual secret of illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you so you can see it moving from behind , this finger here , my time-finger , just from where it was , into a position where it &apos;s extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody sitting in the back who had no childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and if i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t think you &apos;re just three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it processes information , doesn &apos;t count it , one , two , three , but you see it as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not what it &apos;s all about now , and then i open my hand .
of course , it &apos;s held there , but not by the magnetism of my body , but by a trick , by my time-finger , which is there now .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , is hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take that hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
well , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and so that was an amazing thing for me .
because it turns out that when you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirintablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a particular measurable effect .
but if you give the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , to a smaller pill , and you stain these blue and you make a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more effective .
and that , although none of them are pharmaceutical -- they &apos;re just sugar pills .
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really tilted me out .
but it turns out that this is not all yet .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of any shape .
a colored capsule that &apos;s on one end yellow and on the other red is better than a white capsule .
the dosage is also important .
one pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics now . sorry .
but the key thing is , ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an ineffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in your head , which is much stronger than a white pill .
this chart is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time when we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as the capsule that doesn &apos;t work as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief that it creates a stronger effect inside us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
we know from this study that you have to reach the needle when it &apos;s supposed to go to the thing .
this is a five-inch hutneedle . it &apos;s very , very high , and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damians &apos; special cultured meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
i &apos;m going to put that needle in my skin and push it through it until it &apos;s erased on the other side .
if you &apos;re evil -- if you &apos;re falling into things -- i &apos;ve done this in the hotel room some friends last night and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost powerless .
so i propose , if you &apos;re fast , you &apos;re looking away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first hot part in the back here .
you can see it in a minute , but you can also see it away if you want to .
so , it goes like this , right here where my meat starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little insight .
i &apos;m really sorry . does she do it crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and on the other side , they &apos;re back out like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the messertrick .
about .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see this .
they say , &quot; okay , he &apos;s probably not so stupid and he &apos;s going to penetrate himself the skin just to talk for a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t see this properly . &quot;
people in the side rooms are now coming in .
let me show you from near it .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my meat , and i can turn this around .
i &apos;m sorry . if you get evil , look away , don &apos;t look at it .
the people in the back or those who see this later on in the video will say , &quot; well , this looks quite impressive , but if it were real , he would -- look , here &apos;s a hole , and there , if it were really real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yeah , here it is .
now i would usually take the needle out .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
but i think in this framework here and the intention of making something real out of deception , i &apos;m just going to let the needle go in there and go off the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;re looking forward to that . thank you .
everybody &apos;s talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve had some people count the number of books that were published with happiness in the title of the last five years , and they &apos;ve spent about 40 on it , and there &apos;s much more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this tide of work , there are several cognitive traps that make it almost impossible to think about happiness .
and my talk today will be mostly about these cognitive traits .
this is true of layman thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true of scientists thinking about happiness because it turns out we &apos;re just as confused as any other person .
the first of these fall is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is just not a useful word anymore because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could constrain it to , but by and large , that &apos;s something we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take on the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confuse of experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between happiness in its life and being happy about his life or his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both together in the idea of happiness .
and the third one is the concentration illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a fact that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now i &apos;d like to start with an example of somebody who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures that reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he heard a symphony , and it was absolutely glorious music , and at the end of the recording , there was a terrible circling sound .
and then he added in , really quite emotional , that ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t .
what it ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was left with a memory , the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had to get .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there &apos;s a living self that lives in the present and knows the present is able to experience the past , but has basically just the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor asks -- you know , when the doctor asks , &quot; does it hurt now when i touch you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a memory self , and the memory itself is that counting and getting the story of our lives upright , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor promises by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel recently ? &quot;
or &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self , and the memory itself , and the two of them to confuse is part of the immense terms of happiness .
well , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and this really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we don &apos;t just tell stories when we get to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let them start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients who sign themselves to a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . it &apos;s no longer painful today , but it was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who of both of them suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain , the patient a had patient b and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of gut reflections were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is this clear ...
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the one that was worse was where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and also much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and it was much worse for a than b in memory .
well , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the memory of itself .
from the living self &apos;s point of view , b had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , actually , you could extende the patient &apos;s gut reflection by just letting the tube in there without shaking too much on it .
that &apos;s going to lead the patient to suffer , but just a little bit less than they did before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve been doing that , that the living self is worse off of a patient , and you &apos;ve done that memory itself from patients is much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a better story about your experience .
what does a story look like ?
and this is true of the stories that memory delivers us , and it &apos;s true of the stories we invent .
what excites a story is turnarounds , meaningful moments and ends .
end is very , very important , and in this case , dominated the end .
well , the living self lives its lives continuously .
it has moments of life , one after another .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological present is true of about three seconds , which means , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a lifetime . in a month , there are about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave a trace .
most of you are completely ignored by remembering yourself .
and yet , you get the impression that you should count that what happened during these moments of life has happened our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource we use while we &apos;re in the world .
and how we would use them seemingly important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps remembering itself from us .
so we have the memory itself and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is dealing with time .
from the perspective of living , even if you have a vacation and the second week is just as good as the first week , the second vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works for memory itself .
for the memory of self , a two-week vacation is barely better than the one-week vacation , because there are no new memories added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and that &apos;s how time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memory itself from a living self , has very little impact on this story .
well , memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two gut reflections in two different surgeons and decides which to vote , the one who chooses who has the memory that &apos;s less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be chosen .
the living self has no voice in that choice .
we don &apos;t actually choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think about our future as experiences .
we think about our future as previous memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of memory self , and you can think of the memory self as one that kind of draws the living self through experiences that don &apos;t need the living self .
i think the impression that when we do vacation is very often the case , that means we make vacation white in the service of remembering ourselves .
and that &apos;s a little bit hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we consume about our memories ?
that &apos;s one of the explanations that &apos;s been given to the dominance of memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i had ever had , and i think a lot of times in relation to how often i think of other vacation .
and i &apos;ve probably been through this three-week journey from my memories , i would say for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , this is three weeks , and this is at least a year and a half .
there seems to be a disagreement .
well , i may be a little extreme , you know , how little appetite i have on the toes of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the course of the weight that we give experiences ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of vacation , all of your images are devastated , and you get an amnesiac drug so you &apos;re not going to remember anything .
well , would you choose the same vacation ?
and if you chose another vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two kinds of self , and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about time , in the sense that you get an answer , and if you think about memories , you could get another answer .
why we &apos;re looking for the vacation that we &apos;re looking for is a problem that we have with a choice between the two species of self .
well , the two kinds of self are recording two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can use , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we &apos;re now able to get a pretty good idea about the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the happiness of the memory self , it &apos;s a very different thing .
that &apos;s not about how happy one person lives .
it &apos;s about how satisfied or pleased the person is when they think about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms will mess up exploring happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers on well-being who have beaten up exploring happiness in this way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the happiness of the memory self has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and what they &apos;ve experienced . and there have been other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve been starting to learn about the happiness of the two kinds of self .
and the main lesson we &apos;ve learned , i think , is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how satisfied somebody is with their life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach them much about how happy they live and vice versa .
just to give you an idea of the correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
what that means is that if you met somebody , and you were to tell them , oh , your father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about your size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of insecurity .
they have so much uncertainty .
when i tell you that somebody has ordered their life at an eight-scale scale of 10 , they have a lot of insecurity about how happy he is with their living self .
so the correlation is small .
we know something about what the happiness of the happiness itself determines .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness means mostly to be satisfied with people we like , to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasure , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two kinds themselves , you &apos;re going to do very different things at the end .
the conclusion i &apos;ve said here is that we should not really think of happiness as a replacement for well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
well , very briefly , another reason we can &apos;t clearly think about happiness is that we don &apos;t look at the same things when we think about life and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people are in california , they &apos;re not going to get the correct answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier if they live in ohio , say .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , you think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thinking self that decides how happy people are .
but because the thinking self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up moving to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to pursue what happens to people who move to california hoping to get happier .
well , your living self will not get happier .
we know that .
but one thing that &apos;s going to happen . you &apos;ll think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;ll be reminded about how terrible the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;ll feel that you made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we spoke about the phone a few weeks ago , they mentioned to me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup poll .
is that something you can participate in , because you &apos;ve got a few minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result we found in the gallup poll is a number we absolutely didn &apos;t expect .
we found this in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings vary with income .
and it turns out that under a 60,000 dollars a year of income , for americans , and that &apos;s a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under a 600,000 dollar income a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year are unhappy , and they get increasingly less happy the poorer they get .
we get an absolutely flat line about that .
i mean , i rarely saw flat lines .
what happens is obvious that money doesn &apos;t raise an experience happiness , but that lack of money certainly makes you miserable , and we can measure this misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , the memory self , you get a different story .
the more money you make , the happier you are .
this is not true of emotions .
but danny , all over america &apos;s pursuit , it &apos;s about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people took that fund seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything upside down , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians would take a fund generally like the land seriously and make it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition of the role of happiness in politics .
recognition will be slow in the united states , no question , but in the u.k it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are about to realize that they should think of happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to study experience happiness or whether they want to study life grades , so we need to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness depends on how you think and whether you think about it , or whether you think about it yourself , or whether you think about the living self .
that &apos;s going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re agreed to measure the experience happiness of the population .
this will be part of the national statistic , i think , in the next one or two decades .
well , it seems to me that this topic will be , or should at least be the most interesting political debate to pursue over the next few years .
thank you very much for invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design video games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is to save in online games .
i have a plan for it . i want to convince more people to spend more time playing bigger and more great games .
we &apos;re currently spending three billion hours a week playing online games .
some of you may think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute of the future is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week is not nearly enough to solve the most urgent problems in the world .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on the planet , we need to dramatically increase that time .
i calculated that the time that i took is 21 billion hours of play time a week .
this seems a little defense first , so i &apos;ll repeat it to make it work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflicts and obesity , i think we need to try to play online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious about it .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so vital to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of photographer phil toledano .
he wanted to capture the feelings of playing . so he &apos;s built a camera before the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might escape some of the nuances in this picture .
you &apos;re probably seeing this sense of urgency , a little scared , but also external concentration , very deep into solving a really difficult problem .
if you play too , you can see some nuances here that are zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism . the eyebrows are surprising .
this is a player standing on the edge of what &apos;s called an epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . good . so we have some players here .
one epic victory is a result that &apos;s so overwhelmed that they didn &apos;t know it was possible before .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when they do it , they &apos;re shocked that they &apos;re actually capable of doing something like this . this is an epic victory .
this player is standing in front of an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solvers around the world when we take the barriers of the next century , the face of those who are facing all the sights on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , you know ? yes ? ok .
this is me doing the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home at berkeley , california , where i studied why we &apos;re better than in my ph.d. work .
that &apos;s a problem that many players have .
we think we &apos;re not as good as we are in reality .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , even though that &apos;s part of it .
we &apos;re doing more in games . i mean , i mean , in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to work with each other .
when we &apos;re in a game world , i think many of us are turning into our best version , at any given time and immediately helpful to try to solve the problem , as long as it takes , to try it again .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , and in games , they just don &apos;t exist .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you couldn &apos;t just do everything ?
how can we transmit these feelings from games into reality ?
so i looked at games like world of warcraft that give the ideal environment to collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve noticed a few things that make the epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get into one of these online games , especially at world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a global mission , and that &apos;s immediately available .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to its current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
you never get a task you can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of their skills , so they have to stand up , but there &apos;s no unemployment in world of warcraft .
you &apos;re not sitting around turning . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there are lovely collaborators .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to close your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that in real life , that feeling that there &apos;s a fingertip that &apos;s ready for employees in real life .
and also , there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we &apos;re there and what we have to do .
then we get all this positive feedback .
you &apos;ve probably heard of &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + one strength , &quot; or &quot; + one intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback doesn &apos;t exist in real life .
when i leave this stage , i didn &apos;t have to speak + one and + one crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory at any given time that we &apos;d rather spend all our time in these worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of craftsmen players have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily bad .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors started to rise .
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend with games right now , it just makes sense when you think about time as to the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but it turns out , because it turns out that by using all the time on play , we &apos;re actually changing what we &apos;re capable of as humans .
we &apos;re developing to collaborative , heartfelt beings .
that &apos;s the truth . i believe in that .
look at this interesting statistic recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university : the average young person from today in a country with strong game culture spends 10,000 hours to the 21st of life .
so 10,000 hours is a very interesting number , for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact total thing they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the high school graduation -- if you never miss .
so we have a complete parallel education here where young people learn the same way that it means being a good player , like everything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; overfly . &quot;
so you know his theory of success , the theory of success of the 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours studying any thames to the 21st year , we &apos;re going to master into it .
we &apos;re getting as good at doing whatever the most important people in the world are doing .
so , what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-player .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are players masterically good ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have kind of never had the human potential before that .
so many people in the world right now who spend at least one hour a day playing online games .
these are our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good in whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it .
the game industry is developing consos that save energy and work on mobile nets , instead of the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , can play china , brazil online .
you expect one more billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started thinking about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , imagine this as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do immediately , to master a barrier , along with the belief that we have an founded hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying and trying and do it in a minute .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters of dense social nets .
there &apos;s a lot of interesting research that shows that we like people more after playing with them , even if they beat us up .
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play with somebody .
we trust that somebody spends time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal and we stay there for the game .
so together , playing together allows growing ties , trust and each other .
as a result , we &apos;re building stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcrafts-player plays 22 hours a week , kind of as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or do nothing .
we know that as human beings , we work optimal when we do hard , meaningful work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right task .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of awe of awe at missions of planetary mass .
here &apos;s a backyard formation to put that in perspective , and you know wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve put more information together about world of warcraft on the internet than about any other topic in every other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome . players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
they &apos;re people who believe that they can change the world as individuals .
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real ones .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is great . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re not going to be witnessing any less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and that &apos;s from an economist . so it &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me , i develop games , i &apos;m a little excess .
so he says that actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
they can connect more powerful social ties in games than in real life , and they get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
so , he says it &apos;s currently completely logical that players spend more time in the virtual world than they do in the real world .
i &apos;ll agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optical situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that &apos;s 2,500 years ago .
there are these ancient cubes , made of sheep . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep necessary .
and these were the first players to be developed by humans .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story , the story of how games were invented .
according to herodotus , games , rocks were invented in the kingdom of lydics during famine .
there was such a famine allegedly that the king of lydias decided to go to a crazy idea .
people suffered . people fought .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , a design game and agreed a national strategy , and the next day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so distorted into the cube because games are so fascinating and surrounding us with satisfying , happy productivity that they would forget there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating one day and playing the next day .
likewise , i think , we &apos;re using games today .
we use games to get out of the suffering of the real world .
we use games to get rid of everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , all that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting one .
herodotus , after 18 years , didn &apos;t get any better famine , so the king decided to put one last cube game .
they divided the kingdom in two half .
they played a cube game , and the winners had to break down an epic adventure .
they left lydias and they went looking for a new home , and they just left behind as many people as there were food for survival and looked for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
this sounds crazy , right ?
but latest dna evidence shows that the etrussians who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydians .
so scientists recently came to think that herodotus &apos; crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain what famine could explain .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually saved their people through games by whispering into games for 18 years and then having this invitation and learning so much about playing with each other that they saved all of the civilization .
so , we can do that too .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warfare series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cubes for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to find a new world , so i take my 21 billion game hours a week .
we should overcome that half of us spend an hour a day with games until we &apos;ve solved the problems of the real world .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve the real world &apos;s problems ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly what i &apos;ve dedicated my work to in the past few years at the institute of the future .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , expressing how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want to do is create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then we want to empower people to get this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories and we give people the ways to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you three games that i designed to try to get people epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
the oil scarcity is invented , but we have enough online content to make it realistic for them and it &apos;s actually going to live their real lives without oil . so , when they sign up to the game , they tell us where they live . and then they get news movies in real time that show them how much oil it costs , what it doesn &apos;t exist , how much food is impaired , how much food is impaired , whether there are schools , whether there are riots . and they have to figure out how to make their real lives if it were true . and we ask them to blog about it or photograph .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been testing them since the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a different experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you say , &quot; we &apos;re going to get the oil . &quot;
that &apos;s a fascinating adventure to go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have reserved the habits in the game .
so we set ourselves up for the next world &apos;s game to play a bigger , higher target than just oil scarcity .
we developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute of the future .
the starting point is that a supercomputer has been calculated that people have only 23 years on the planet .
this supercomputer is called the global extinction system , sensitive , of course .
the call to players to sign up , we almost designed like a &quot; jerry bruckheimer &quot; movie .
you know jerry bruckheimer &apos;s movies , where there &apos;s the dream-team . they have the astronauts , the scientist , the ex-beach fling , and only together they can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , say , everybody &apos;s in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job of creating the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that you can read when you google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3 , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you close the game , you get the award from the world bank from &quot; social turnaround &quot; in 2010 .
we work with universities all over sub-saharan africa and invite them to learn how to redesign social .
we have a comic book on it . we have &quot; level up &quot; for regional understanding , knowledge interconnectedness , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i want to invite you all to share this game with young people around the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from saving your own social enterprises to save the world .
i &apos;m going to end .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a big meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to connect close social nets , urgency optimism and desire for epic meaning .
i really hope we play together major games to survive on the planet for another century .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like this .
when i look forward to the next decade , i &apos;m sure to two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let &apos;s start the world-changing games !
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that came to me a few months ago when i wrote a article for italian wired .
i always griffed my synonym dictionary in writing , but i was already done with the process of working the text , and i noticed that i &apos;ve never looked at my life , which means &quot; disabled &quot; really .
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjective : &quot; crawled , helpless , useless , destroyed , encrypted , wounded , wounded , wounded , loaded , separated lost , served , chosen , impotent , capped , paralyzed , paralyzed , handicapped senil , age weak , pulled out of traffic , removed , refined , refined , reduced , injured , injured and weak .
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud and had to laugh first , and it was so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; court &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk anymore , and i had to stop reading and collect after this transition tide and the interconnected emotional shock .
of course , this was a great , old synonym dictionary , and i just thought the issue must be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy in the early &apos; 80s when i was just starting elementary school , and starting to build and shape my self-image outside my family environment , even in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonym dictionary at the time .
if i were to take this post seriously , i would be born into a world that somebody like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t go in any way , but today i &apos;m celebrated for the odds and adventures i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called myself the online issue of 2009 , and i expected me to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
especially the last two words under near antonym are shaking me healthy .
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the roman , really believed that the language of a flight has a great force , because what you &apos;re talking about can also manifest yourself .
so , what do we actually want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
already an eighth person as a child could reach out to you and limit you and overcome ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open up doors ?
a human being who opened doors to me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delner .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s an italo american whose name , as you can think , most americans couldn &apos;t correct , so he always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just created for work with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to repeat individual practice seemingly infinitely with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles . and i hated these tapes more than anything else . i hated them . i flooded them . i hated them .
and imagine if i even negotiated as a five-year-old child with dr. p. , and so i tried to stop these evils naturally without success .
and one day he saw me in one of my practices -- these evils were just tired and abused -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to tear one day down one of these tapes .
and if you can do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was just a simple trick by dr. p. so i did the practice i didn &apos;t want to do , with the view that richest five year-old girls in the hospital were becoming the second floor , but he actually made me see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of myself as a strong and powerful girl shaped my self-image , and i could think of myself as one of nature &apos;s strong , powerful and atlethal people .
this is just one example of how adults in power can promote the imagination of a child .
but as the examples already quoted from the synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t let us imagine something we would all wish : to allow anyone to see themselves as powerful people .
our language leaves the social change that was triggered in many cases by a technological change .
from the medical standpoint , of course , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities and evolve beyond the limits that their natural destiny has set them to develop , not speak about social networking platforms , are allowing people to define their own identity in a way , in a way , and to orient themselves to groups around the world .
so , this technological change may be clear , because depending on the fact that there was always a different truth , which is that every human being can give society something very special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- that &apos;s an interesting story , because people always ask me to tell me how to deal with wields , and i &apos;m going to admit to you something : that sentence never fits for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering the questions of people , and i think i start to understand why .
that sentence of dealing with widespread lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on master a challenge without being shaped by the associated experience , as if my life had gone so successful because i could expand the possible traps of a life with a prosthesis , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
but the truth is that we &apos;re changing . of course , we &apos;re shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
skills are not an obstacle we need to embrace to better deal with our lives .
skills are just part of our lives .
and i tend to think of wishes as my shadow .
sometimes i realize it &apos;s very present , sometimes it &apos;s very little to see , but it &apos;s always with me .
and i don &apos;t want to take any case off the impact , or the severe struggle of a human .
there are skills and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and every person is about this , but the question is not not whether we can deal with skills or not , but how we deal with them .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people we love from fatalities , but also preparing them to get good with it .
and we don &apos;t like our kids when we make them feel like they can &apos;t adapt .
you have to be clear about two things : one , the medical fact , amputated and another , the social opinion of whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and remaining disability i had to deal with is that the world always thinks it could describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people who we care about and tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical forecast , or even put a forecast on the quality of life that they expect , we need to pay attention to the fact that somebody is actually disabled .
maybe the concept that we &apos;re looking at right now is just what &apos;s in a broken one , and how we repair it for every single one of us is a greater disability than the pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being holistically , and we don &apos;t see and recognize all its forces and all its possibilities , we create in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to lead to , another disease .
we degrade a human being who has value for our society .
so we need to look beyond patology and focus on all kinds of human possibilities .
but most importantly , there &apos;s a connection between perception of our inadequacy and our great ingenuity .
we should not shrink or deny these challenging times , we shouldn &apos;t try to avoid them , or we should go under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing opportunities in the powers .
i may be more about making it clear that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome vienna , but that we &apos;re open to embrace it , grab it on the shelf to use a fight expression , and maybe dance with it .
and maybe we can think of wields as something natural , coherent and useful and so we don &apos;t feel as harmed by their presence anymore .
that year we celebrate the 200 birthday of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , has pointed out something very true about human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the strongest of its kind survives , not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one who can best adapt to change .
conflicts are creativity .
not only from darwin &apos;s work , we know that the ability to survive and flourish human being is determined by the fight of the human mind to change by conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills in man .
and maybe we only know what wood we &apos;re cut from when we &apos;re really tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly the sense of skill , a sense of i.t. , a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give skills a new meaning that goes beyond severe times .
maybe we can see skill as a change .
skills are a change we haven &apos;t adapted to yet .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve added to ourselves is to believe we should be normal .
honestly , who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual one . there &apos;s the typical one . but not the normal one , and would you really want to know this poor gray person if you really had them ?
i think it &apos;s not .
it would be great if we could exchange this paradigm of normal thinking against another possibility or strength to even make it a little bit more dangerous , and exchange it , so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills to society .
anthropolars have found that we have always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that neanderthals were valuable to society 60,000 years ago and people with severe physical injury , and this may be because the life experience was valuable for these people &apos;s survival team .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i had grown up in a food market in this red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a scheffel tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy saying behind me , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man , and i had no idea who he was .
and i said , &quot; sorry , sir , we know ourselves ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you may not remember me .
when i first saw her , i pulled her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that .
and of course , it made click .
this was dr. kean , a man i only knew from my mother &apos;s narratives about this day , because i , of course , typical , came too late to my birthday .
the doctor for pratal diagnostics of my mother was on vacation , and so my parents knew the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without a waking legs , and my feet had been focused on them , and i had just a few toes on this , and a few toes on the other foot , he was the overwhelming , that stranger had to overcome the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents you would never walk , and never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never live an independent life , and since then they just punished me . &quot;
what was really extraordinary to me was that he collected newspaper clips from all my childhood , whether i had won them at a letter competition in second grade , whether i was traveling to hallolanders with the parade , whether i had my scholarship or one of my sporting victories , and he used these clips to teach his students , medical students from hahneman medical school and hey medical school .
and he called this part of his course the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can &apos;t emphasize just how important this factor can be for the quality of life of a human .
and dr. kean kept telling me , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that if you don &apos;t get something else all the time , and even though you get a little bit of support if you leave kids to themselves , kids can achieve a lot . &quot;
you see , dr. kean changed his thinking .
he understood that medical diagnosis , and how somebody does it , there are two different things .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me whether at the age of 15 , whether i had traded my prostheses against legs of meat and bones , i wouldn &apos;t have hesitated a second .
i was desperate to work normally at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not that sure .
and that &apos;s what happened because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite that experience .
and maybe this change could happen because i met so many people who opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who wanted to limit me or overcome an idea .
you see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to you how they can manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own inner forces -- the human mind is so reception -- if you can do that , and open a door to someone in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher to these people .
they teach them to open up doors themselves .
the real meaning of the word &quot; performance ate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means creating something that &apos;s in one is to tickle the potential .
again , what potential do we want to call out ?
in the &apos; 60s , in britain , a case study was done , and at the time high school was transformed into total schools .
they call this streaming journal in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
the students are divided after notes .
and the a student is beaten in a coercion , and the better teachers and so on .
they then gave about a three-month period of time to students with a &quot; enough &quot; note &quot; very well , and they were told they were very smart , and after these three months , they really wrote down .
and of course , it breaks you up to hear that vice versa was told to be just enough .
and that &apos;s the same thing after the three months .
but only the ones who were still in school -- except for the students who had missed school .
the key thing about this study was that the teachers weren &apos;t denied .
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that being the one-on-one students , and that &apos;s enough students with the note , and they taught them something and they treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken , has no hope , it finds nothing beautiful , it lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we can help the human mind continue to hope , to find yourself and other people around them beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , we will set up our forces really positive .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new forms of existence .
i want to end with a poem that was written by a persian poet called hafiz in the 14th century , and that my friend jacques dembois told me about , and the poem is called &quot; the god who knows only four words . &quot; &quot; every child knows god , not the god of banned , but the god who knows only four words and repeats them all the time , he just says , commission with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose i said that through a few changes in your genes , you could have a better memory -- more precise , more accurate and faster .
or do you want to be more fitter , stronger , have more power .
do you want to become more attractive and confident ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe they &apos;re one of whom has always been yearning for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if it could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a few . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
how many would choose to memory good ?
a few more .
what about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could just have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is that all education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor &apos;s theme .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology makes no sense but in the limit of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your listening device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can look at kathryn school tz &apos;s book , which is to be wrong , because nothing else will make sense of you in this talk .
but if you accept biological evolution , remember this : is it just about the past , or is it also about the future ?
is it fun for others , or is it affecting us ?
this is another way of looking at the tree of life .
in this picture , i &apos;ve set a bush as a center of branches in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing specifications on the tips of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms : they &apos;ve survived ; it &apos;s demonstrated in its environment fitness and strength .
the human part of this busy , way to the end , of course , is what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in that period of time , maybe 20 or 25 different specifications of hominids .
some have come and gone .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems like we &apos;re pretty remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but actually , most of the time , the fundamental mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can pull out of it and make the mechanisms of a shared bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin that &apos;s used to treat diabetes ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undistinguished from what comes from the pancreas .
and what we &apos;re talking about bacteria is , do you realize that each of us in our gut leads more bacteria than cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to offer them all the nutrients they only want without effort on them .
it &apos;s really a easy way for bacteria to do it , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeody forced to outcome .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just like they care about their lives .
they help with the digestion of essential nutrients , and they help them protect them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to come in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in a species ?
or are we sure to be different -- something that &apos;s perhaps even better adapted to the environment ?
now let &apos;s go back to the time of the big bang , 14 trillion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-celled organisms , maybe so much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which are eventually shaped in the last 130,000 years .
in this huge unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just short ; the animal kingdom , like a single note and human life , is a little notation .
that &apos;s us .
this is also the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope you liked d .
now , when i was a ninth in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i realized something very fundamental : in most of the existence of life in individual organisms , every cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is continued into both daughter cells .
but at that time , when multi-celled organisms appeared , things started to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction , the genome continues , the rest of the body becomes deprived .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our bodies in evolution at the same moment as the sexual reproduction .
now i have to admit , when i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at that point , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my increasingly doubt .
i came to understand the feelings of george burns , who , in las vegas , did his show in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knob on his hotel room door .
he opens the door .
in front of him , there &apos;s a beautiful , splendid showgirl .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; george says , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization that as a doctor , i was working on a goal that was different than the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just differently .
i tried to keep the body in mind .
i wanted to keep ourselves healthy .
i wanted to restore the health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about delivering the genome to the next generation , adapting and surviving generation after generation .
from an evolutionary standpoint , you and i evolved like booster rockets to send the genetic questions to the next level of orbit , and then fall to the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to reach immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean preferring the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily privilege the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , not even the smartest .
evolution is privileging the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s the only test of survival and success .
because of the reason of the ocean , bacteria are there that are thermophil , and they survive the hot steam otherwise if fish were there , they would have vacuum cooked fish , yet they would have managed to make it a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean ? if we look back at what &apos;s happening in evolution , and how we think about people &apos;s place in evolution , and especially how we look forward to the next stage , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
we &apos;ve reached some kind of balance .
and the reasons for that would be that first of all , through medicine , we could get a lot of genes that would have been otherwise chosen and been removed from the population .
and secondly , as a species , we configuring our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt it to us exactly and adapt to it to it .
and by the way , we go and circulate and mix so much that you can &apos;t say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statements .
a second possibility is that it &apos;s going to be a evolution of the traditional species , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument , here , is that the wheels of evolution would be slowly mating , but they &apos;re inadvertently .
and as far as isolation goes , if we &apos;re colonizing distant planets , there will be insulation and the changes in the environment that evolution could produce in a natural way .
but there &apos;s a third way , a tempting , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that &apos;s not just natural , but led and decided to be an individual in the decisions we make .
now , how could this happen ?
how could it be that we do that ?
let &apos;s start by looking at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they &apos;re in some cultures , they &apos;re choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decides .
so think , if not only were it possible to choose your child &apos;s gender , but also to prefer genetic adaptations to the body , to heal and prevent disease .
what if they could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s , or eliminate cancer risk or stroke strokes ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look forward , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
the following year , when it was finished in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in it until four months .
today you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about $ 20,000 and in the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take long to make the reality that there &apos;s going to be 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it &apos;s going to be increasingly available to everybody .
a week ago , at the national academy of engineering prize for francis arnold and willem stemmer , two scientists who developed independent techniques from each other to encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and to lead desirable proteins in a more efficient way -- which frances called arnold &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was given to scientist shinya yamanaka for his research , where he took an adult skin cells , a fibroid box , and by manipulation of just four genes , the cell induced to bring them back to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell is potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that human insulin produces in bacteria that can make viruses that can &apos;t just protect themselves , but can also serve immunity to other viruses .
whether you believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study going on with vaccine against influenza that &apos;s been grown into the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good coming out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it &apos;s going to be much more possible .
imagine just two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells in your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the eggs or the newly fertilized egg to give your children a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , eliminating the hemophily , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier kids ?
and then analytical technology , the same engine of science that can allow change to prevent disease , could also allow us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t we have the ability to strike a ken jennings , especially if you can expand it to the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow them to walk faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be inconsistent .
and if we &apos;re at a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes we want , we &apos;re going to be transformed by old evolution to neo-evolution .
we &apos;re going to have a process that usually requires 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even for the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren , or your grandchildren , need to deal with .
do we use these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us , not for others ?
are we going to form a society of thickness and uniformers , or robuster and multipage ?
these are the kinds of questions we need to face .
and the deepest of all , will we ever be able to develop the wisdom and master the wisdom we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions ?
in good ones like evil , and early on , when you might think these decisions are going to be about us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you overhuman skills , or another that helps wheelchair users stand up and go back up .
we call it the exoskeletons at berkeley bionics .
they &apos;re nothing but something that they put in the morning and give them extra strength and that will continue to increase their speed and that will help them keep their balance .
this is actually the real congregation of man and machine .
but not only that -- merging and connecting with the universe and other devices out there .
that &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier on average carrying about 100 pounds on his back , and there &apos;s a request for them to wear more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injury , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal cord injury .
so we thought we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc now -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds above different terrain for many hours .
his flexible design allows you to get deep , crawl and do highly maneuverable movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go , and then i increase my strength and persistence .
we &apos;re here to introduce this device with our industrial partner , this new exoskeleton , this year .
so it &apos;s true .
let &apos;s now take our view of the wheelchair drivers , something i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people sitting in a wheelchair worldwide .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and this is actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about very young people with spinal cord injury , who were hit in the flowering time of their lives -- 20s , &apos; 30s , &apos; 40s -- by fate , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , which is multiplicity .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a brainbeat , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and by the way , for 500 years , since he , as i have to say , it &apos;s been very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
let me introduce you to elegs that are carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which has come to the conclusion that she couldn &apos;t walk for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda carries our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboarding computer , which is attached here on her back .
here are also battery-packaging , the engine engine is on its hip , just like on their knee joints moving forward in this pretty natural gangway .
i was 24 years old , and i was in the best form when a monstrous pure tree was pursuing while a ski was paralyzing .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement below my basin .
not long after that , a doctor step into my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never walk again . &quot;
and this was 19 years ago .
it steel every five hopes from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have been able to learn since then , to climb again , to drive with my hands of biking .
but nothing was invented that would let me go again so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet us and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i fought as a help of a fireman &apos;s main man in a volunteer solver solver the fire .
well , in our city , where volunteers supported a highly skilled professional fire department , you have to be in the brand pretty early days to mix with you .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the branding site , so i had quite good opportunities to go in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the responsible man and figure out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the owner who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the battlefield and barefoot under a screen outside in the streams as her house was standing in flames .
the other volunteer who had arrived in front of me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first , and was asked to go into the house and save the dog of the house owner .
the dog ! i was linguistic .
there was some lawyer or wealth administrator who could now tell people that he was going to a burning house to save a living thing because he was five seconds faster than me .
well , i was next .
the main man turned me on .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go into the house .
you have to go up , pass the fire , and this woman has to get a pair of shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
well , not exactly what i hoped for , but i went up -- the stairs , the hallway , past the real &quot; firemen who were already pretty much done at that point in the bedroom to get a pair of shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i wore my prey back down where i met my enemy at the front door and the beloved dog .
we put our estimates outside to the house owner , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
a few weeks later , the fireguards got a letter from the owner where they thanked themselves for saving their house .
one about all estimated kindness : somebody had even brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness at the big scale , but i also see actions in love and the mud of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and see people who have either achieved an eighth success or are on their way there , i want to offer that memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait for me to make a difference in another &apos;s life until they &apos;ve reached their first million .
if you have to give , you give it away now .
use it in a soup kitchen , clean a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
not every day will we have a chance to save a human life , but every day offers us the ability to change one .
so they go ahead ; they save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret to the continuity of humanity .
a place where women lead the prescription , with sex , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not like touch man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relatives .
this is the world of wild bonobos in the forest of congo .
bonobos are together with chimpanzees our next living relatives .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressive .
but unfortunately , we emphasized this aspect in human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
while chimpanzees are led by great , scary guys , the bonoboo society is led by empowered females .
they &apos;ve really come out of this , because this leads to an extraordinary tolerant society that has not been observed in lethal force .
but unfortunately , bonobos are least known among primates .
they live in the deep congolese primeval , and they &apos;re just hard to observe .
the congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of the darkness itself -- the view of a violent argument that has been deserving for decades and almost as many lives as the first world war .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction is also at risk of the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and decline in the tree is that you couldn &apos;t even fill a stadium with the connected bonobos -- and even there we &apos;re not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that shakes trees .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have common , also bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules so conflict and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that would be the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the bonobos &apos; lives are made up of more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing their lives .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us and it &apos;s play fundamental to attach relationships and care to tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
play increases creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about generating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of interconnections .
and if you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickling that keeps us together .
well , i don &apos;t know how you play , but i want to show you some unique images right away from the wild .
first a ball game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think of it as football .
so here we see a young female and male playing in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
that could be the evolutionary origin of saying , &quot; it packs it in the eggs . &quot;
only that i think he likes , right ?
yeah !
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting because it shows -- and this video is really interesting because it shows the ideality that you bring new elements into play with -- like the testicles -- and also how the game requires and promotes both -- while also having tremendous fun .
but the game is a formal transducer .
play is a formal transducer , and it can take a lot of forms that some of which are a little quieter , fanciful , curious -- maybe to rediscover the amazing again .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think just like them , we sometimes play alone , and we lend boundaries of our inner worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected linkages that we form are the real nutrients of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos offend us to our past and our present .
but they also keep a secret to our future , a future where we have to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printing cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
to succeed in an inconstant world , we need to play .
but will we make the best out of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people , equally , life is not teeth and claws alone .
just when it seems hardly appropriate , play is perhaps most necessary .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s embrace this gift of evolution and play together while we rediscover crony creativity and wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two couples , in the mid-1979 , on exactly the same day , at the same moment , each one &apos;s got a baby -- okay .
so two couples , each one having a baby .
now i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the creation because , if you imagine the creation all the time , you &apos;re not going to listen to me .
just imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case the sperm has a y chomosom hitting the x chromosome of the egg .
and in the other case , the sperm carries a x chromosome hitting the x chromosome of the egg .
both of them are survival , both of them are light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
most of my activities have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m looking at the anatomy story .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people with anatomy -- that is , human bodies , animal bodies -- how they deal with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they thought about bodies .
the other hat i wore in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i worked with people who worked with body types who question social norms .
so for example , i worked with people who are siamese twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word intersexuality for this .
intersexuality occurs in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a few examples of the possible types of gender variants that don &apos;t correspond to the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have somebody with a xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms is paralyzing the protogonads that we all have to grow up to testify .
and so the testosterone testosterone testosterone is giving off in fetal valley .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to see the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
and that &apos;s called androgen receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body evolves more to the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it takes most of the time to reach puberty and grow your breasts and evolve , but you don &apos;t get your period until somebody comes to the point that there &apos;s something else here .
and they do some tests and they find out that instead of wearing ovarian and uterus , they actually wear testicles and they have an y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could think of this person as a male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
they &apos;re in the back of our bodies .
and the side kidneys make androgens , which are virizing hormones .
most women , like me -- i think a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosome structure , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually respond to androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the consequence is that somebody like me actually has a brain that was more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and has an androgenic defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexual standing is not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a way , they can be distributed across the entire range .
another example : a few years ago , i got a call from a 19 year-old man who was born a boy , when he had a boy , he had a friend , had sex with his friend , lived as a man , and he had just found out he had eggs and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side bubble .
he had xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so strong that they basically created a male hormonal environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were shaped male , his brain was exposed to the typical male part of the hormonal spectrum .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- nobody saw anything .
and only when he turned 19 , he got enough medical problems , in fact , because he was inherently mentioning that the doctors found he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variation of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes develop something called ovoty , which is overwhelmed by ovarian tissues of dense tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different variants .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexual -- from surgeons often adapted to norm is not because that would be advantage for their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they &apos;re often given different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a particular anatomical leap comes in with a particular identity .
so we have the concept that being a woman is about having a female identity , a black person being a , is supposed to be an african anatomy in terms of your own story .
so we have this terribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re confronted with a body that actually represents something very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had seen most of the excitement recently was the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was questioned in the track of the world cone championship in berlin .
many journalists called me up with the question , &quot; which test are you going to do that tells us whether caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there &apos;s no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough , that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line for us between male and female , or between male and intersexual and female and female and intersexual ; tactile is what we do to make it natural .
so we have a situation like this where , as our science continues , we have to admit ourselves more that these categories that we thought were stable anatomical categories that made very simple arrangements to create permanent identity scatories are much less than we thought .
and this is not just in terms of gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology allowed .
in our views , we got into all kinds of inconvenient areas .
we &apos;re going to push the fact , for example , that we have at least 95 percent of our dna in chimpanzees .
what should we do with the fact that we &apos;re only different from them by a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science forward more and more , we &apos;re getting into a zone of discomfort where we need to recognize that the simplistic categories that we probably had were too simple .
we see this in all kinds of areas of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this for beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about what point a body becomes human , so that it &apos;s a different right than the fetal life .
we have very difficult conversations today -- maybe not as public as we do in medicine -- about the question of when somebody &apos;s dead .
our ancestors used to have never had that hard to fight with the question of when somebody was dead .
you &apos;ve kept a feather under your nose , and when it moved , you haven &apos;t buried them yet .
if it didn &apos;t move , you &apos;ve been buried .
but today we &apos;re in a situation where we take people &apos;s vital organs and we want to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we start to fight the really difficult question of when somebody &apos;s dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole thing would break down of categories like me really make you happy .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit i &apos;m nervous .
to understand that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought made me excited .
and it makes me excited about how to think about democracy .
so to tell you about that tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were raced , i know they were sexist , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and so strong , and so radical in what they did that i would look at the mallet of the malignant musical 1776 every few years , and it &apos;s not because of the music that &apos;s absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened to the founding fathers in 1776 .
the founding fathers , from my point of view , were the original anatomical activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they proved was an anatomical concept , and they replaced it through another that was radically and radically beautiful and 200 years for us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was based on a very simplified concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on dna , but they had a concept of birth on it .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they were the notion that people who had political power should have this political power because of the inherited blood line from grandfather to son and so on .
the founding fathers turned this idea back and replaced it through a new anatomical concept , and this concept said that all people were created equal .
they niveled the field of play , and they decided that anatomically , they counted the similarities , not the differences . and that was very radical .
now they did that in part because they were part of an education system where two things grew together .
democracy grew in , but at the same time science grew in .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , you realize that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a natural world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural ways , and proven things like a supernatural concept of power , back where transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they don &apos;t talk about god and god &apos;s nature .
they talk about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomical common .
and they &apos;ve prepared the future civil rights movement in a really wonderful way .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who were asking for voting , the concept of founding fathers , which says that anatomical common importance is more important than the anatomical difference , and they said , &quot; we have a uterus and eggs as a difference , that we shouldn &apos;t have the right to vote , the right to own property , etc . &quot;
and women argued that was successful .
next came the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like as sock reflector , who spach over it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of citizens &apos; movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people have different skin colors that are based on anatomical similarities with anatomical differences , again , successfully .
we see the same thing in the disabled legal movement .
of course , the problem is that , as we start looking at all the similarities , we need to start questioning why we sustain certain separations .
well , remember , i want to sustain certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
i don &apos;t want to give you fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should be the right to give their understanding of sex or marriage .
so there are some anatomical separations that make sense to me , and that we think we should keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out which ones are and why we keep them and whether they &apos;re meaningful .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been caught at the beginning of the talk .
we &apos;ve had two creatures , both in the mid-1979 , on exactly the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , three months of spring , were born , so she &apos;s born on june 1 , 1980 .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months old , she requires all kinds of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to take sex , the right to choose to drink , the right to drink .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time point of his birth .
we find other oddities about what their rights are .
heinrich , since you think he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s with xy -- because you think he &apos;s male , he can now be drawn in , which maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
whereas in all states , maria can &apos;t perceive the same right thing that heinrich has in all states , and that is the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can marry a woman in a few states today .
so we have these permanent anatomical categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is , what are we going to do because our science is making such progress in anatomy , that we &apos;re going to have to reach a point where we need to admit that a democracy that &apos;s based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up science , but at the same time it feels like science is self-assembling .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we need to pull a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people are trapped in a very strange position .
so for example , texas decided at one point that to marry a man means you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and a woman to marry means you had a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story i told you about the androgen receptor defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream of speech . &quot;
he says we should judge people not &quot; their skin color , &quot; but &quot; judge them by the trait of their character , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yeah , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
how do you judge people because of their character ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure we should distribute rights in terms of people such a way , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserves more than some of the people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some light labradordogs , who are more able , more intelligent and more mature decisions to make their sexual relationships than some 40-year-old relations i know .
so how do we operate the question of the character ?
it turns out it &apos;s really hard .
and part of me is , what if the content of a personality was something that would be machine readable in the future -- using the fmri could be made visible ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems to be really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to making thoughts about democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done our thing really well , and i think we &apos;d do our thing well in the future .
we don &apos;t have the situation , as is the case in iran , where a man who feels sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he &apos;s willing to sign himself a gender transformation in which case he can stay alive .
we don &apos;t exist with these kinds of states .
i &apos;m glad to say we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon i talked to a few years ago who had brought some siamese twins in them to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i telephones with him , and i asked him why he did these interventions -- it was high-risk surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids would be treated very badly , and that &apos;s why he had to do it .
i answered him , &quot; now did you consider political asyl rather than an operation to separate them ? &quot;
the united states has incredible ways to allow people to be the ones they are without having to change for the state &apos;s will .
so i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to end , i want to notice that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers a lot .
and i want to think about the ways that democracy might look , or could have looked like , if we had involved mothers more .
and i want to say something that &apos;s radical for a feminist , and that is , i think , that there could be different kinds of insights that master anatomy , especially when people apply a group thinking .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve been also interested in research in gender differences .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and act in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not each , but on average -- tend to give a lot of complex social relationships and care to people who are vulnerable within the group , pay a lot of attention .
and so when we think about it , we have an interesting situation to do it .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my students asked me to do my interest in feminism -- i thought of myself as a feminist , i do it that way -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s female about feminism . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the most stupid question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about resolving cotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that &apos;s to say , there could be something on average , which is different from male brains , which makes us more aware of highly complex social relationships , and to make us more aware of the protective need .
so where the founding fathers were extremely suspicious of figuring out how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we put more mothers into this concept , we would get more of a concept , not just how to protect them , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we have to go in the future when we take democracy out about anatomy -- think less about the individual body in terms of identity , and think more about relationships .
so that if we as a people are trying to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to do a very public confession , and that &apos;s , i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love finding a different colorful , crazy outfit for every opportunity , and also photographing and blogging recently .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from second hand to floors and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my guardian to the environment and also the impact of my wallet .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars are used for a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes me buy my very personal chatting .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are loud , i feel like i won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i tell you what i &apos;ve packed here at ted for this exciting week .
i mean , what does anyone bring so many outfits to it ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought .
i brought seven of the underpants with me , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for exactly one week are all i did in my suitcase .
i woke up that i would find everything else i might want to wear once i came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me , the woman who &apos;s walking around her underwear here at ted -- that means i &apos;ve found a few things .
and i really want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
as i do that , i &apos;m going to leave you with some of the lessons i believe it or not , from these adventures , learned not to wear anything new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call that the radiant tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
you can look great for almost always for less than 50 dollars .
all this outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece i wore all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be bad at wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adapting is completely overrated .
i spent a lot of my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not only going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
sometimes people tell me i looked like playing clothes , or i remember their seven-year-old .
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
donnerday : confidence is the key .
if you think you &apos;re looking good at something , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you &apos;re not looking good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me day after day .
but only when i turned 30 i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you for a moment .
if you believe you &apos;re inside and out is a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for anyone in this audience .
we should be able to rotate everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailers fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing your own unique personal style is a great way to tell the world about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again when people came to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , this will not fit all in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate all this again .
because the lesson i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to emotionally arrest these things , because right around the corner , there will always be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit that &apos;s waiting for me if i love a little bit and i have a heart search .
thank you very much .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a imagery , as a flying point .
this is what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about it .
now if you take this picture -- i &apos;m italian originally , and every boy in italy grows up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is because of what happened in the formula 1 in the last few decades .
it was like , a while ago , if you wanted to win a formula a a , you took your budget and put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
well , today , you need , if you want to win a race , in fact , something like this -- something that monitors the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors that are giving information from the car , pass it on to the system , and then process it and then use it to send it back and change things in real time as information is collected .
this is what you would call a real-time control system in engineering teams .
and basically , it &apos;s a system made up of two parts -- a feeling part and a reacting arrow .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems are starting to appear in our lives .
our cities have been , over the last few years , equipped with networks and electronics .
they become free of computers .
and as a computer in the open , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
if we &apos;re building cities , that &apos;s actually a big deal .
only by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population is living there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- cause up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big deal .
beyond cities , all of this perceiving and driving into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that organizes paola antonelli for moma later , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
well , all of our objects , our environment , are starting to speak to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost like every atom out there becomes both a sensor and a driver .
and this is radically changing the interaction we humans have out of our environment .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo formed the moses , he said he was going to take the hammer at the end and threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little place called , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment is the first time to respond to us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
let &apos;s start with perceiving it .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it came out four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we &apos;ve done is we &apos;ve actually used a new kind of network that &apos;s been used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone web -- and using anonymous and aggregated information from this network that &apos;s being collected anyway from the operator to understand how the city works .
summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember it was a italy against france , and then at the end of zidane , the headshock .
and anyway , italy won at the end .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
you can see in the middle the colosseum , the tide .
in the morning , before the game .
you can see the timeline up .
early afternoon , people here and there , making calls and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , they go to toilet .
second half-time . end of the normal time of play .
first extension , second extension .
zidane , in a moment of the headshock .
italy wins . yeah .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the winning team and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you can see the picture of the space about co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebration -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
well , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do it a few years ago .
another example quickly of feeling : this is not about people , this is about things we use and consume .
well , today we know all about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that are a mac computer , how they came together .
but we just know a little bit about where things go .
so we actually designed some little markers in this project to track the garbage as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , marking the things they threw away -- different kinds of things you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , pasted on the trash , and we started tracking it .
here are the results we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with that information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data has not been available before .
but that &apos;s what happens to a lot of unuseful and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we think that if we see every day the cup we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear , it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle we &apos;re still throwing away every day .
and if we showed that to people , we can make a behavioral change .
so that &apos;s why this project is happening .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you much more about what &apos;s going on and the many other wonderful things you can do , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question from the mayor who came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition to use in public places as part of the architecture .
and the question was , how could you connect technology , new technology ?
and one of the ideas that were mediated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , valves that open and close .
they do something like a water curtain with images of water .
if these imagery points fall down , you can write on it , you can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach it , and it &apos;s going to open to let you jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he liked it very much .
and we got the mission to design a building in the expo entrance .
we called it the digital water patholion .
all the building was water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it &apos;s going to open up and let you go .
the roof was also covered in water .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can even let the roof down .
or you could close the building and all of the architecture , as in this case , you know , this day , when you drive down the roof , you get images of people who were there saying , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you can see the person wondering what &apos;s going on inside of it .
and here i am trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not to get wet .
well , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but in fact , that night it was a much bigger fun .
all the kids from zaragoza came to the building because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open to let them open , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
and this was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use the things we design .
but the reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical images , the images of water and the projections on it .
and this is what made us think about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine if these pictures could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each of you could have a little image of a changing light -- almost like a cloud moving through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , moving with others , completely sync .
you can have this cloud .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display like this -- an equal formation in two dimensions .
or irregular , though , in three dimensions where what &apos;s changing is light , not the position of the images .
they can play with different kinds .
imagine if just could appear in different formats or sizes in different resolution .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of images that you can go through and move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-control falling down to form like before a equal v .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this , so the same way we saw it before .
imagine that every single person is controlled by us .
it could have a impulse from every single image that comes from people from the movements of humans or so on .
i want to show you something first here .
we worked with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scala in milan -- we took his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
here you see roberto dancing .
on the left , you see the images , the different prisoners &apos; impressions .
it &apos;s a real-time 3d scan and a movement recording .
so that they can understand the whole movement .
you can do this all the time .
but then once we have all the imagery , you can play with it and play with color motion and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the london olympics .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine that we reengage people to do something and change the environment -- almost like what we call the cloud movement , how to move a barrel , but with a cloud .
imagine that everybody can give a little donation to a picture point .
i think that the remarkable of what &apos;s happened over the last few years , which is that we &apos;ve changed from a physical to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and power it up through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign obamas has shown this -- we can change from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of networks to the physical world .
that can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something built in the city .
but tomorrow it can be asked to address the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we change from the digital world to the physical .
so the idea is that we actually engage people in doing things together , collectively .
the cloud is again a cloud of images , in the same way that a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical structure in london , but it &apos;s covered in images .
they can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , give the most important moments for olympics in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both the physical cloud in the sky and something at the top you can go to , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital glow at night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i think i &apos;m very important about context .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that people are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected .
the first time i was in antarctica , almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first icebergs .
i &apos;m awe of access .
my heart raced , i was dizzy , trying to write what was going on in front of me .
the icebergs around me were almost 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
icebergs are born as a glacier &apos;s calf , or by breaking out of ice sheets .
every iceberg has its own individual personality .
they interact in clearly their environment and their experiences .
some people refuse to give up and brainer to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse in a seizure of dramatic passion .
when you look at an iceberg , you think they &apos;re slightly isolated , separated and alone , just like we humans often see .
but the truth is far from it .
as a iceberg melts , i breathe its ancient atmosphere .
during the iceberg , he releases mineral drinking water that feeds a lot of life forms .
i think of my footage of these icebergs as if i make portraits of my ancestors , in the mind that they exist in these individual moments , that they will never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when they melt ; it &apos;s not an end , but it &apos;s a continuation of their path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the icebergs that i &apos;m imaging is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last pictures i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i took pictures in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely , you &apos;re actually becoming a rolling iceberg .
here you are .
on the left , you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please look at the shape of the iceberg , and where it is in the water line .
you can see here he &apos;s starting to roll , and the boat &apos;s moved to the other side , the man &apos;s standing there .
that &apos;s the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it rains about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you a different side of its personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists in the &apos; 80s .
then one day , he came back from walking and said , &quot; dad , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of it .
tempt is completely paralyzed today .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
so i have a company that does design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to have tony -- tempt -- and support his thing .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you that money .
what are you going to do with it ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to be able to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back to him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people through these devices communicate ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you &apos;ve heard about the higher social layer and you &apos;ve got a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
ordinary people are not accessible . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate ? &quot;
did anyone see the movie &quot; butterfly and &quot; diving bell ? &quot;
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk along .
i &apos;m like , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
so i came up with the need to just make a check , and instead i put out a check that i didn &apos;t know how to resolve it .
i committed to place and place to his brother and his father -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is like this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to make his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who &apos;s carrying all this stuff can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people at grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface and then draw a laser pointer on it that only regimes the negative surface .
so they pull around and they make art installations like these .
they say that all the things that are shown up there follow a life cycle .
it starts with the gender parts , then the shots come in , then the bush publishing , and finally , people are actually doing art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home , and i ate with my wife at night , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , second , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use your eyes to control things , we should find a way to control a laser so that he can make graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve reached a lot of things .
first of all , we insurance the doors , and we actually got a device for a tempt to communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you think , &quot; i &apos;m so worthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
and we also flown seven programmers from around the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- to home .
my wife , my children and i moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspirations theorists and archists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought we were pretty stupid to do that , and that we came back and all the images on the walls were free .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to venice beach , my kids were involved , my dog did , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
these are a cheap sunglasses that we bought on the venice beach , some copper wire and some of the things we built out of the building market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we built it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we put it on the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of constraints .
no insurance can be crossed .
no hospital either .
now , any paralyzed can actually communicate or draw alone with your eyes .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to the tempt room .
i love this picture because it &apos;s the room of somebody else , and this is their room .
there &apos;s now all this hull from the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and performing nights , tony drew for the first time after seven .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we tilted his bed so he can look outside .
we put a projector on a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
funny , we had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
at the end of the day , he sent us an email with this content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve drawn something .
i feel i was pushed underwater , and finally somebody took me down and lifted my head so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
this is something like our struggle .
that keeps us at the distance and let us evolve and evolve .
and we still need to improve a lot of this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s a magic board right now .
and somebody who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve gotten all kinds of recognition .
we won some prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve of it .
it &apos;s all coming from our own pockets .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong tweeted about us and then , december , honored us the time-magazine when one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about this is -- and this closes the whole circle -- that there &apos;s going to be an exhibition , at the gemoca in the inner city of los angeles called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will probably be pretty much the hardest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt will be part of the show , which is pretty much what &apos;s happened .
so basically , i &apos;m talking about this : if you see something that &apos;s impossible , it &apos;s possible .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with exchange technology , but i &apos;ve just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put anything on the legs together .
and that question should be , every single day , if you notice something that needs to be done . if not now , when ? and not me , who then ?
thank you .
so , i write for kids , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most yellow children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to come from that as a scientist .
i can be a farmer , or a leather , but nobody has ever chosen farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something you find because you &apos;ve dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
a friend of mine did it -- richard bollingbird .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle i want to tell you about today .
my circle started in high school in the &apos; 60s in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom .
i was the one who was beaten every week in the virgin &apos;s toilet green and blue until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life using the toilet in the teacher &apos;s room .
it did secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to go out of town .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it beat me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and in the &apos; 80s , i thought it was important to record a job at aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a call from this teacher , woman , who said , &quot; i have to see her .
i &apos;m sad we never met each other as adults .
can you come to ohio , and please come together with the man i know you &apos;ve now found him .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and that i want you to hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at them , we laughed , we cried , and we knew they had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we brought them in , and we took care of them , and we gave them eight to their family because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to know me as an adult , she turned to a box of ash and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation i talked about .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this has been mentioned so often today .
it needs the same -- it needs dignity , love and pleasure . and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as it gets up to 1,000 meters .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a drive that makes a sound , claam , claack , claack , claack , claack , clam , bag , clam .
that sounds scary .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the airplanes .
so i looked at them in a minute , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
the pilot had already applied the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot sent the machine out after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not usually the route .
it turns off the boxes .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most lovely words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; prepare for impact . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to borders anymore .
i could see it in her eyes , there was a fear , there was life going on .
i want to tell you three things i &apos;ve learned that day about myself .
i learned that in a moment , everything is different .
we have this life plan , we have these things we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people i wanted to make a hand and didn &apos;t do it , all the fences i wanted to flick , all the experiences i wanted to make and never did .
as i later thought about it , i noticed a phrase , which is , &quot; i collect bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is there and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to move anything in life .
and that urgency , that goal , really changed my life .
the second thing i learned that day -- and that was when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing i really regret .
i had a good life .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i aspired to become better in everything i packed .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego room .
and i regret the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , to friends , to people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to banish negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years anymore .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m deciding to be happy .
the third thing i learned -- and while the inner clock is starting , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , counting ... &quot;
you can see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts as you know it from documentaries .
as we were falling down , i had this feeling of dying , man , dying is not terrifying .
almost like we &apos;re preparing our lives for it .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really evolved in one thought , which is that i just wish one thing to do .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month after that , i went to visit a store of my daughter -- first grader , not a lot of artistic talent ...
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense to me .
i realized at the time by connecting the dots to each other that life is just about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became the wonder of not dying that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future and come back and live differently .
my call to those of you who fly today is , imagine the same thing happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would you do that you shoot them up because you think you &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in that ?
and more than anything , are you the best parents you can be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is pretty simple .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important one there for developing nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes you see here , these are real-time control systems .
now , if we can commit the systems that control twists and valves , we can actually do a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t walk with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can do it , if we can do it , an effective windows virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , we &apos;re in the business .
and that &apos;s the planning behind stuxnet .
so we start with a windows dropper .
the user data is transferred into the gray box , damaged the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delay -- mission .
this is a child game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found that .
when we started our research on stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the point and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-per-part , he made use of countless ceround use .
and it seemed a little bit preferred with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this got our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we studied this construct .
and then something strange happened .
stuxnet was like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniff it , but didn &apos;t want it .
that didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized this is a target attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the droppers are actively arguing on the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even when the special program that tries to infect is going to be going on this goal .
and if not , stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , that really brought my interest , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , for example , a u.s. power station or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should soon figure out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decompired the attack code , and we found that it &apos;s restructured in two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information available .
they knew all the bits and bytes they had to attack .
they probably even knew the shoe size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already gotten involved that the stuxnet &apos;s complex and high-tech droplet , let me tell you , the useless data is a science for you .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here you see a clip of this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like the old-fashioned assembly language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get out of this code .
so what we were looking for first was system calls because we know what they &apos;re doing .
and then we looked for tickets and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could evidence or disprove .
to set up these theories , let &apos;s remind ourselves that it &apos;s definitely high-grave sabotage , it has to be a high-value goal , and very likely it &apos;s in iran because most infections have been reported there .
well , in this area , there are not several thousand goals .
it &apos;s basically going out to the bureaucracy nuclear power plant and the urine incentive facility in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called them up , and i tapped their knowledge to compare their expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor and finally even let the centrifuge explode .
what we also found is that the goal of the attack was to actually make it happen slowly and incredibly well -- obviously in trying to make warning engineers despair so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get there fast .
the great digital warhead -- we got a glimpse of looking at very closely data and data structures .
so for example , the number 164 is very sticky out of this code ; you can &apos;t miss it .
i started working through scientific literature about how these centrifuge are built in natance , and i found that they &apos;re structured in what they call cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fits together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuge in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the code of attacks ?
an almost identical structure .
so again , this was a really good thing to fit .
and this gave us great confidence for the one we studied here .
well , don &apos;t get me wrong , that didn &apos;t go like that .
these results were done through several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end and we had to recollect .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading in one and the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and turns the rotors and slows them down , and the big warhead comes in with six cascades in interaction and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s nateness , and it &apos;s just nateness .
so we don &apos;t have to worry about other goals being hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s something really cool stuff we discovered -- really sucked me out of the socks .
down there is the gray box , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the inflating values of sensors -- so for example , from pressure-sensors and vibrational sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still running during the attack , with wrong data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already taken before .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where , during the pursuit of pursuit , the surveillance camera is fed with recorded video .
that &apos;s cool , right ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and much more aggressive .
the idea is to overlist a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
so for example , in a power station , when the big steam turbine gets too fast , you have to open depositing valves within milliseconds .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so at this point , we need digital security systems .
and when they &apos;re at risk , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and not the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice .
this is scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
so for example , he would work just as well -- in a power station or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to get the usb key , as we saw it at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and if you do that , you finally get a cybermass destruction weapon .
that &apos;s the consequence we need to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , in europe and japan .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we need to face the consequences , and we &apos;re going to start preparing ourselves better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , there was a lot of this reporting that people suspect the mossad organization is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know ?
yeah . okay .
i think the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind that is cyberpower .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and dangerous at the same time .
i went to jail -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mining work -- dangerous .
i filmed in war zones -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve been exposing most of my career to the terrible situations , and all of this to try to study social leverage is that they &apos;re compelling and interesting , and hopefully in a way that makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to see the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
some of you may have heard about it that a few weeks ago i turned an ad on ebay .
i sent some facebook messages , some twitter messages , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights at my tedtalk in 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never restore -- to buy the name rights on the talk that you &apos;re seeing that at that point didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content , and not many hints of what the subject would actually be .
so what you got was this : her name presents here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the topic will be , and which could fly around your ears after content , especially if i let your company stand there for your participation .
but apart from that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is actually just the workforce .
so despite that warning , i knew somebody was going to buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
but in the new project i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re studying the world of marketing , of advertising .
as i said , over the years , i went into some pretty terrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could arise me for anything as difficult and as dangerous as going into a room with these guys .
you know , i had the idea for a movie , you know .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole movie is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the movie will be called &quot; the performance performance ever mind . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the widow ever mind &quot; is that everything from top to bottom is completely suspected with brands -- from the front to the end of the movie -- from the front sponsor you &apos;ll see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the stake center ...
these people will be connected to the movie in eternity forever -- forever .
and so the movie will study this whole idea -- that &apos;s what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
this was more to emphasize .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the brand x as a front sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven from &quot; the performance ever mind mind &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention from &quot; the mind mind mind ever . &quot;
so the idea is to show , apart from the fact that brands are part of life , actually , to get you to fund the movie ?
and we &apos;re actually showing the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole movie is transparency .
you &apos;ll see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so that &apos;s the whole concept , the whole movie , from beginning to end .
and i would be happy if ceg was going to help do this .
you know , it &apos;s funny because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
i don &apos;t know how receiving people will be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use perspective , because that has a negative connotation -- but you know how this will evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize this ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet you , but i think it &apos;s worth definitely to address some really familiar brands .
who knows when the movie comes out , we might look like a horror of volliots .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer will be , highly likely , no .
but is it a hard thing to do because of the movie or a difficult thing for me ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about which brands .
yeah .
if you look at the people you have to do with ...
there are some places we can turn to .
spend the camera .
i thought , &quot; make the camera mean we wanted to have a backyard conversation . &quot;
it turns out it meant that it meant actually , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your movie . &quot;
and just like all of these companies disappeared , one after another .
nobody wanted to have anything to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they wanted to have absolutely nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product to as many people as possible , make it as many people as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , at this interface of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting investigation tool that the masses brings that message .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but look , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following thing .
in fact , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is for is a problem .
you see , when you type in transparency in google search , this is -- this is one of the first pictures that appears .
i really like your way , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to discover and through ; immediately , characterizing visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business spraying -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes to the point where it &apos;s supposed to be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is scary -- like this strange bear that &apos;s still breeding .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange highway .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
all of a shells cool whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
you see , when i was a child , and my father caught me in lying -- and there he is sitting and looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you can see , with this movie , we wanted to tell the true version .
but there was only one company , an agency was willing to help us -- and even because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to bend the middle man and go to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a broad problem .
i have friends making big , giant hollywood movies , and i have friends making little circular movies like me .
and my friends , the great , giant hollywood movies , say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends say they make little culture movies , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , giant hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the performance ever mind . &quot;
so how accurate are we going to see ban in the movie ?
whenever i get on the way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see deban odorant .
and every time i interview somebody , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are you here ? you look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this in front of the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great jets .
either &quot; flhyfusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; you &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
this is the short-term .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an extraordinary socket .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
just as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenger as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing things like this -- you know , reminds people of ban -- this is kind of why we &apos;re interested .
what words would you describe to ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
transmitted technology .
technology is not the way to describe something that somebody &apos;s doing under the boxes .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes into something positive , unlike &quot; fight smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times more fresh .
these things have a more positive impact .
and this is a million company .
what about me ? what about the printing room ?
i have to talk to the man on the street who are like me , otto normal consumers .
you &apos;re supposed to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
well , my brand ?
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothes .
80s , revival is hitting skate points , except on the wash day .
all right , what &apos;s the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably dark glamour .
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray notes and a lot of stuff .
but usually i have a accessoire , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
man 2 : the brand i am is , i would say , nice fly .
partly the hippie , partly yogi , partly brooklyn-girls -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell museum museum animals all over the country , worldwide .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
that &apos;s my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex because i was executive .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol addicted writer berling .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer brand .
i &apos;m tom .
well , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself at the interface of dark glamour and neglect .
and what happened was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could go into my head , somebody who could really help me understand what &apos;s called the &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nest maintenance , fat , hallmark , discover that brand personality .
if you could do it for those , you could probably help me .
you brought your pictures with you , right ?
i have that . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how that &apos;s connected to your thoughts and feelings about you .
these are the people who shape my view of the world .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your own world is the world you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come and start from a place , and for me come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
the next thing . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what context is that about the thoughts and feelings about yourself ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are strange . i like strange things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
what &apos;s the machete ? what ppet stage are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what does it represent red ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
which other metamorphosen have gone through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be scared . what kind of rollercoaster are you ?
eeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what &apos;s going to happen .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that their brand personality separated two , but it had supplementary pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eighth brand .
they go very well .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with this .
and i think some companies will just focus on one strength , rather than both of them .
many companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- to avoid things where they &apos;re not sure , they &apos;re going to avoid fear , these elements , and they &apos;re going to be welcome , and they &apos;re actually going to turn them into something positive for themselves , and this is a sketchy chess .
what other brands are doing this ?
the first one is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there are brands and mindful brands , these things that come and go , but a playful , mind-wandering brand is a pretty strong thing .
an eighth , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , what would it be like ?
do you have an up-attribute ? are you something that brings blood to whales ?
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are you something that &apos;s a little quiet , reservative , conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh prince , time-consuming , adventurous , and lovely like erol flynn , maneuverable and agile , professional , glorious and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are you mindful and monumental like 007 ?
are you established , traditional , nurturing , protective , compassionate like oprah ?
are you reliable , stable , family , safe , born , holy , as well as the dalai lama or yoda ?
in the course of the movie , we had over 500 companies that were up and down companies saying no because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this movie because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s going to be 17 brand partners who were willing to go into this control that was going to do business with somebody as eight and as playful as i am , and that finally empowered us to tell stories that we couldn &apos;t usually tell -- stories that would never have supported an ad .
they allowed us to tell the story of neuromarketing , just like we tell the story in this movie , that you use mris today to tackle the pleasure centers of the brain , to make advertising and movies .
we went to sao paulo , where outdoor advertising has been banned .
there &apos;s no time afel all over the city for five years , no poster , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove to school districts where companies are moving their way into imbuted schools , all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects i got most of the feedback from , or where i succeeded , are the ones where i interacted with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they surrounded the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our world &apos;s view challenges .
and what was that like for you ? what was it successful ?
now that the movie had premiered in the sundance film , we can look at this .
according to burrale , the premiere one in january , and since then -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
that actually only includes a two-week period .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the movie hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not streaming .
it hasn &apos;t come out in other countries .
well , finally , the movie got a very big momentum .
and this is not bad for a project where almost every ad agency we talked to has recommended their client &apos;s fingers to let the fingers of it .
one of the things i believe in is that if you take your opportunity , you take risks , you take risks .
i think if you stop people from that , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that when we move forward , we have to encourage people to take risks .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of opportunities they might scare .
finally , when we move forward , we should welcome fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome fear . welcome risk .
each of these is a big spoon , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk is &quot; welcome transparency &quot; was presented by my good friends of emc who paid $ 7100 for the name rights on ebay .
big data is transformed into big opportunities for organizations around the world .
emc presents &quot; welcome transparency . &quot;
thank you .
well , morgan , on behalf of transparency , this : what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i have a check in my pocket , put it on the top organization of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at the height of 7100 to fund my ted performance the next year .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i encouraged myself to do something with museums and art , and my boss , who &apos;s also today , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the performance .
there are a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and your access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i don &apos;t mean to myself -- but i had too many museums and these works of art .
then when i traveled and visited these museums , i started learning a lot .
and as i was working for google , i was trying to make this yearning -- to make art more accessible -- to bring technology together .
we then formed a team , a great team , and we started this .
i &apos;m probably going to start with the demonstration and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to google tproject.com .
you can look around all these museums here .
there &apos;s the uffizi , moma , the hermitage , the rijks , van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you come in two ways -- very simple .
moment , and um , you &apos;re at this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where they are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
you want to orient yourself in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
in there they want to be to the end of the gangs .
just keep it going . much fun .
give them sticks .
thank you , but the best part is still coming .
so now i &apos;m in front of one of my favorite pictures , harvest workers by pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plusge .
when the museum has given us the picture , click on it .
now this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i click this away now .
this is one of the images we &apos;ve noticed with the so-called gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion imagery points , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion imagery ? &quot;
i &apos;m going to show you that now .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
but then you really want to go deep .
and so i started playing around , and i found that something was happening there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i got close , and i slowly realized that these kids actually beat a little bit .
i did some research , i spoke to some famous met , and in fact , it &apos;s a game called squail , where a gans is beaten with a stick on tuesday .
it seems like it was quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to really get close , you can go up to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out to see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
but the best part is -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding details .
but what if you want to see the brush strikes ?
and what only when you want to see van gogh creating this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can really go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in one of my favorite parts of this picture until i really am in the cracks .
this is starry night , probably never seen this before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
that &apos;s the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
each of you , each -- whether it &apos;s rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these pictures you can put your own collection on .
very simple , you go in -- and i &apos;ve done this , it &apos;s called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom in .
this is the donation , the national allery .
you can see everything with remarks , send your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think finally , for me , the main thing is that all the wonderful things here don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come from museums , i think .
i shouldn &apos;t say that .
they come from the artists .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope we &apos;re going to be just talking to this digital medium of art and represent it online properly .
and the biggest question i ask recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s all about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two half .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitudes of every hemisphere , we could show your brain .
for example , this would be somebody who &apos;s completely logical .
that would be somebody who &apos;s completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain at this scale ?
some of us may have decided for one of these extremes , but i think for most people in the audience , their brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute that &apos;s at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good deal of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good percentage of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop that intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
so we go out and play with it and then we see how it responds , and then we start to develop our intuition .
they basically do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions they &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that one thing at a time can only be in one place .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that one thing is in two different places at the same time , but they weren &apos;t born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child play on a ground threshold .
he was another little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was constantly falling .
but i bet that he taught him to play with the ground threshold a very valuable lesson , which is that the big things don &apos;t just leave you behind and they stay in one place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not particle physicists .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist because they don &apos;t play with bodily pigs , they play with these little strange particles .
and when they play with their particles , they find all kinds of strange things -- like they fly right through walls , or that at the same time they can be in two different places .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called them the theory of quantum mechanics .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t take them to describe the great everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen one particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all of these things are made up of particles and all of these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t just follow the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why that shouldn &apos;t be .
so i would feel better about all of this , if we could somehow show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so a few years ago , i went to do that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see that green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal i &apos;m going to talk about in a minute .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m losing it a little bit . we &apos;re looking at the center .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i made this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new silium slices , and i raced on all the big devices for 100 hours .
for the last little bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this kind of swimming pool and shaped hole and get this thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , when i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of strange things , but then other people go up , and i listen to all these things because i don &apos;t want to harm them with it , or , frankly , they go away .
so quantum mechanics says unmoving objects feel the same .
the fellow drivers for inmobile objects are not just people , but also the light that shines on them , and the wind that passes to them and the heat of space .
and so we knew that if we wanted this piece of metal to behave quantum mechanically , we had to throw all the passengers out .
and then we did .
we turned off the light , put it in a vacuum and sucked out all the air , and cooled it up until almost now , all alone in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange .
instead of just being quiet there , it vibrated , the way it vibrated was something like this -- like a more expanding and together parenting bubble .
in which we gave him a little push , we could make it vibrate at the same time , not vibrate -- something that &apos;s only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you right now is what &apos;s really fantastic .
what does it mean for an object to vibrate at the same time , not vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
so the first case : all the trillion atoms that are made of are still there , and at the same time the same atoms are moving up and down .
just at precise times , you agree .
they &apos;re delocalized for the rest of the time .
that means that every atom at the same time is in two different places , which means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth closing in the clean space for all this year , because , check that , the mass difference between a single atom and that piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were in many places at the same time , how would that feel ?
how would your mind bend up being delocalized in the space ?
there &apos;s another aspect of history .
when we warmed it up , turned on the light and looked at the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just torture objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics say that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s like these connections , their connections with all the things around them , are literally defining who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should conceptualize how we think about economic development .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they live and want to work , they &apos;re given the opportunity to choose between at least one hand full of different cities all standing in competition for new residents .
we &apos;re right now far from that goal .
there are billions of people in developing countries who are not even available to a single city that would welcome them .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs them to build .
so we could make the world very easy with dumb , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd for you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
but they &apos;re just trading out apartments against cities .
imagine half of the people who want to live in apartments did this already ; half of the people don &apos;t yet .
you could try to expand the capacity of the apartments that existed .
but you know what you &apos;re going to be insisting on , in these apartments and their environment , there are laws to avoid being complained and deflect from exposure .
so it turns out it &apos;s very difficult to come up with all these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block , assuming the laws there would support you to build and not prevent it .
so i &apos;ve proposed that governments create new areas that provide enough space for a city and have given them a name : charter cities .
i found out later that , for example , around the same time , jafour and octavio have thought about the challenge of a reform in honduras .
they knew that every year about 75,000 hondurans could leave their country to go out to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an unsettled area of our country -- what if we just give them a message -- part of the american embassy ; part of the canadian bottleneck -- and if people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can do everything they would have to go to canada or america on the surface of these messages ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a major depression .
in the next planned elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround whose program promised both innovations and disclosure .
he asked octavio to become his stable .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
by improving , trying and studying consumers , i tried to reduce this complicated concept of the charter city to the basic elements .
the first point is that the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we pay great attention to new technologies , but we need technologies and laws to progress , and they &apos;re common laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to tedtalk .
he showed him jafour , again .
they both called me up .
and they said , &quot; let &apos;s present that to the head of our country ! &quot;
so we met in the boarding room in miami in december .
i tried to make it clear how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than they are .
and i used this chart to show you how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that a surface in some cases is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , at a point when there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so tedtalk was a place in very simple form that a charter city is a place that &apos;s uninhabited in the beginning , an founding contract that determines the laws that exist there , and people are able to decide , either , or not , to live under these rules .
so i was asked by the president of honduras , who meant we need to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way we get our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again and fifth of january .
so i gave another talk with facts that has included a graph like this that tries to realize that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch represents the new airport built in denver .
this airport alone has an area of 100 square miles .
so i tried to convince the hondurans of wanting to build a new city , which is to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s over 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and aware .
the head of congress came up on stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i have it here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and you played the tedtalk .
and i came to the core statement that a new city gives people new opportunities .
there would be the ability to live in a city that would be in honduras , rather than hundreds of kilometers away in the north .
and a new city includes new ways for leaders to join us .
the government leaders in honduras would depend on the aid of partnership countries , they could benefit from their partner countries , which they would support in providing the laws for this charter and in performing , that everybody can trust the charter that &apos;s really being implemented .
and the realization of president lobo was that the confidence of the permission i &apos;ve thought about as a way to get foreign investors to come here and build this city as equally important for all the parties in honduras who have been suffering from fear and suspicion for many years .
we went to an area .
this is a picture of that place .
it &apos;s a thousand square miles .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted to congress for a change in constitution to have a broader policy that &apos;s reliable for special development areas .
in a country that just got a significant crisis , in which congress was elected for this comprehension change with 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
to become part of the constitution , but it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved for the second time with 114 to a voice .
immediately after that election , between the 21st and february 24th , a delegation of about 30 famans traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in climbing into the business of the city .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city center built in south korea worm big than the city center bostons .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in building cities is singapore .
there have been two cities built in china , and the third one is in preparation .
so if you &apos;re basically thinking about it , it &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already been worked on a legal system that allows managers to participate , and it &apos;s also been worked on an external legal system .
a country has already offered its supreme court as a court for the decent appeal of the system there .
urban designers and farmers are also very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one of the things , as you already know , has been explained , there are many landlords .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to move in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who &apos;d like to live there .
there are 700 million people around the world who claim they &apos;d like to live in a different place .
a million people leave latin america a year and go to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to look for work -- sometimes single mothers who have to make enough money to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , sometimes even children who are trying to find their parents again , who , in some cases , have not seen for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about in honduras as a whole new city ?
or even building dumb from these cities , or distributing hundreds of them around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities standing in competition for new residents ?
that &apos;s an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
do you know how many decisions do you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions do you make in a typical week ?
i recently did a survey of over 2,000 americans and the average number of decisions that are , according to a typical american , makes 70 .
and also , a recent study with ceos , where they saw the ceos for a week .
and these scientists just documented the different topics that this ceo has been doing , and how much time they spent making decisions that are related to the issues .
and they found that a typical ceo is doing 139 tasks a week on average .
each of these topics was , of course , made up of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made within nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
do you know how many decisions do you make in the nine minutes of category to the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you &apos;re at dealing with the decisions ?
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
when i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , my first question for today is , are you ready to hear about the decision-overload problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduation student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least he was really exclusive at the time .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure park .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essig and over 500 different kinds of fruit and vegetables and over two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drank conductive water .
i loved going to this store , but at one point i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were locked into boxes , which came from a thousand year-old olive trees .
so one day i decided to visit the filiall-eider , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work that you really offer people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed to the bus charges of tourists who came every day and usually had their cameras on it .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s their marmelting gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
we put a little food set right at the entrance of the business .
we put six different flavors of marmelade there or 24 different flavors of march , and we looked at two things : first , i mean , what case would more people stay and try marmelade ?
there are more people left if they were 24 , about 60 percent than if they were six , about 40 percent .
and then we looked at which case people bought more of a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who stayed when they were 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marsuits .
of the people who stayed when they were six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marsuits .
now , if you do the math , people bought six times more of a glass of marade , who they had six to choose than if they had 24 .
now , buying a glass of mars is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waist -- but it turns out that the decision overload problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it &apos;s going to be against our own best interests .
so the theme of the day : financial saving .
i &apos;m going to describe to you a study i did with gur huberman , eme kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the decisions for retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans in the entire united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fondges that were possible to a retirement plan was the 401 plan , the probability of whether to save more for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a context .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that people offered anything between two and 59 different fund .
and what we found was that the more fund was offered , in fact , that the more fund was offered , the less part of it was .
now if you look at the extremes , the plans , the two fund offers , had a partial in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that almost 60 fonds offered , the partial rate dropped to about the sixth percent now .
now it turns out that even if you participate , if you had more opportunities to choose , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tend to be more likely to have more opportunities to give them , the more they rent it and to choose fund .
the more possibilities they had , the more they put all their money into pure market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions , they &apos;re part of the decisions that somebody would recommend if your future financial well-being matters .
well , in the last 10 years , in humans , we &apos;ve seen three essential negative consequences that offer more and more choices .
they push the decision -- push it down , even if it comes to their own best interest .
they make more bad decisions -- worse financial decisions and worse medical decisions .
they choose more for things that they satisfy themselves , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for that is that maybe we enjoy looking at these huge shelves of mayonaise , mustard , essig and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually take the comparisons and boundaries and then actually choose something out of the fantastic deal .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and in different research places -- that you can just use in your business .
first of all , limited .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it was never more true than you have today that less is less .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limit . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they lose legal space .
but in fact , we see it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to constrain , and the unimportant opportunities to get rid of it , well , there &apos;s a rise in sales , there &apos;s a cost to go down , &amp; amp ; ; ; and there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making perception .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and wider species from 26 to 15 , they experienced a 10 percent increase in sales .
when the golden cat corporation sold its 10 worst cat streams , they experienced that the profits went up by 87 percent -- a result of both the sales and the reduction of cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart now offers you 100,000 products .
but the ninth largest supermarket , which is today &apos;s ninth largest supermarket in the world is aldi , and they only offer you 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that have come to market recently , about how best you can get the choices , was something that david laibson has designed very much with , it &apos;s a program that &apos;s offered at harvard .
every single harvard employee now automatically takes part in a life fund .
the ones that really want to make a selection are offered 20 fund , not 300 or more fund .
you know , as people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
they &apos;re all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities of each other are different .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep it apart , your customers can &apos;t either . &quot;
now before we started lunch today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said he would be willing to provide a single vacation to all the people in this audience .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i &apos;d like to read you the ones .
and now i &apos;ll give you a few seconds to read them , and then i &apos;ll clap you if you &apos;re willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
okay . anyone who &apos;s ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
well , let me show you a little bit more of that .
you know , it was a trick , right ?
now , who &apos;s ready for that journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
in fact , you &apos;re looking at objectively the first time , when there was more information than the second time , but i would want to tell you that you felt it the second time real .
because the images made it feel more real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps them deal with the problem of decision-making overload , which is concretification .
it &apos;s about people understanding the difference between possibilities , understanding what consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and which needs to be vivid and concrete .
why do average people spend 15 to 30 percent more if they use an ec-map or a credit card than they spend in barrels ?
because it doesn &apos;t really feel like we &apos;re feeling money .
and it turns out that if you create something that feels concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so we did a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro ze tero , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees who all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation for their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we &apos;ve left this gathering just like it was , we &apos;ve added a little bit of added .
the little thing we added was that we asked people to just think about all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they saved money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save or an increase by four percent in the amount they were willing to pay for the savings account .
the third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than we can with more choices .
here &apos;s a study we did in a magazine process , for example .
it turns out it &apos;s up in the way supermarkets and down in the northeast , the number between 31 different kinds of magazines has up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines and divide them into 10 categories or i show you 400 magazines , and i divide them into 20 categories , you think i &apos;ve given them more choices and better choice than i would have given them the 400 , if i had given them the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep it apart .
here are two different dirty facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other one is called swing .
if you think the left ad is swing and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap in your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think it &apos;s on the left side of jazz and the one on the right side of swing , please clap .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization .
the categories have to tell the selector something that doesn &apos;t give the selection .
and this problem often happens when you look at the long lists of all these fund .
who do you actually want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : assumption for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we just need to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
i &apos;ll show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : a car purchase .
here &apos;s a german manufacturer who gives you the opportunity to configure your car completely by itself .
you have to make 62 different decisions to design your car completely .
now these decisions are different in the number of choices you make per decision .
car colors , outdoor color of the car -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i &apos;m doing now is i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions appear .
half of them go from the many ways , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
what do i look at ?
how interested you are .
if you use the standard selection all the time in the decision , it means you &apos;re overwhelmed , the hottest , i lose it .
what they find is that the people who go from many to the low voting ponds over and over again choose the standard choices .
we lose them .
go from the little choices to the many , stay there .
they &apos;re the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple beginning , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear is choosing , nothing about my preferences in the interior , it still enriches me to choose .
it also excites me about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to motivate myself to be interested in this .
let me summarize .
i told you about four techniques that reduced the problem of decision-making overload -- limited -- they &apos;re going to get rid of the superfluous alternatives ; concrete it -- make it real ; categorize -- we can deal with more categories , fewer opportunities ; we can prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques i &apos;m going to describe to you today is to help them manage the opportunities -- well , they can use them for themselves , well for the people they service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re picky at the selection .
and the more we choose , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-managers at youtube , and i look at youtube videos .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how videos are viral , and then we want to talk about why that &apos;s important at all .
we all want to be -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult .
but web videos have allowed all of us , or all of our creative activities , to be terribly famous in some of the culture of the world .
each one of you could be famous about the internet until next saturday .
but youtube is uploaded over 48 hours of video a minute .
again , only a tiny percentage of this is ever viral , and it &apos;s looked at thousands of times , and so to the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , partial communities and the unexpected .
well , then we want .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
woah !
ohhhhhhhhhh , wowwww !
last year , performance vasquez sent this video he had filmed in front of his house in the yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this chart shows what it looked like when the video first became popular last summer .
in fact , no viral video wanted to make .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because you do that when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain class .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimsky .
jimmy kimsky sent the tweet who eventually made the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimsky introduces us to new and interesting things and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . god ta get down on friday . all the time forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . ttin down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we were going to have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it was looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the chart looked like .
just like the double rainbow , it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
well , it was friday , that &apos;s right .
if you want to know , these other tips are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 forged that , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson from the mystery science theater was a first to make a joke on twitter about this .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers shared a standpoint with a big audience and accelerated the process .
then this community of people sharing this big insider joke and started talking about it and playing with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of friday on youtube .
already in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single week .
unlike the one-way conversation of the 20th century , participation is our way of becoming part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new from it .
&quot; nyan cat &quot; is animation and music in final loop .
it &apos;s it , very simple .
this year it was looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version of this that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats are looking at cats that are looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is creativity dominated in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something we can all participate in .
today we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something , we join .
who could have looked at all of this ?
who could have predicted double rainbow or rebecca black or nyan cat ?
what scripts can you have written that are in ?
in a world where every minute video footage is uploaded , only really unique and unexpected can emerge as the video i mentioned .
i admit i wasn &apos;t particularly interested when a friend told me to look at this great video about a guy protesting against tickets in new york .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t drive on my bike path , but there are often disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike lanes .
since this was completely surprising and humorous , casey was looked at the funny idea and his argument five million times .
this approach is true of everything new we do in a creative way .
and all of this leads to the one big question .
what does that mean ?
uhhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , completely unexpected , are the features of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to and determines the audience popular .
as i said , one of the greatest stars in the moment -- justin benber -- did his beginning with youtube .
nobody has to give their ideas green light .
and today we all feel ourselves as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of old media , and they &apos;re not going to meet the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
how can i talk in 10 minutes about women &apos;s interconnectedness , and how the amazing strength of this interconnectedness was manifest themselves in the lives of a four-year-old girl who lived with her little sister over 30 years ago , her mother and her grandmother , for five days , sat in a small boat in the chinese sea . a interconnectedness that anchored in the life of this little girl and never disappeared -- this little girl who now lives in san francisco and now talks to you ?
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s yet to be put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man burning his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of unity and freedom of his home .
keep him in the march of the communist in saigon eyes , as he has to admit , his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were mocking his .
he moved back to silence .
he died , broken through history .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never forgot me his life .
i had to make sure it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that history was trying to crush ourselves , but we were left .
the next puzzle component shows how a boat is running in the early morning red quietly to see .
my mother was 18 when her father died -- an arranged marriage , two little girls .
for her , life had set a task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely excluded that it could fail .
after a four-year-old and film tires of saga glitt , a boat still to see as a fishing boat .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the greatest fear was that they were pirate , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother wore a little toxin bottle .
if you had a captive take , my sister and i would have drunk my own sister and my grandmother .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady tuckle of the engine , clapping every wave on the bug , the vast and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came many times , but they were left to be fooled by the death courage of men on our boat , or the failure of the engine that six hours didn &apos;t want to start .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple to give me one of the men on the platform .
no apple ever tasted that way again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next puzzle piece is about four women in three generations building a new life together .
we went down in footscray , one of the working-class inhabits whose population is made up of immigrant layers .
unlike the ancient middle class suburbs that i was completely unknown about , in footscray , there was no sophisticated thinking .
the smells of the charges came from the rest of the world .
and the rags broken english were traded between people who had one thing in common : they restarted .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , twice layers .
she somehow managed to find the time to acquire english and it qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was given and was put into more education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to deny for it , most of the time , the new things that came from second hand .
two strokes for school , each one to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform to the buttons , because it had to reach six years .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; sled eye &quot; and here and there are murals : &quot; asians , goes home . &quot;
where do we go ?
something was getting inside of me .
there was a meeting to reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat in nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night until their nightmares came so that i could wake them up .
she opened a computer business , then made a cosmetics education , and opened another business .
and the women came up with their stories of men who didn &apos;t get the change , angry and unflexible , and careful kids , caught between two worlds .
loans and sponsors were seeded .
centers were built up .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one of them , i was the classic asian student who was putting unbitable demands on himself .
in the other , i was involved in unsafe lives , the tragic scars of violence , the drug abuse and the insulation .
but so many got help over the years .
and because of that help , i was chosen as a young australian of the year i was in law school .
and i was catapulted by one puzzle piece to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit .
tan le , anonymous resident of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist who had been invited to speak to places she had never heard of , and in housing that she could never have imagined .
i wasn &apos;t familiar with the label .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the comfort of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who closed every day of their days as they had for 20 years by telling each other the stories of their day and including them , we still three of them in the same bed .
i told my mother i wouldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as they were when we climbed the boat .
no , it &apos;s never been a way .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about youth darelessness and education , and the neginalized and displaced neglected .
and the more open i talked , the more i should tell .
i met people in all the lives , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the boundaries of the possible .
and although i had graduated from it , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newcomer , new in the picture -- and not just okay , but something you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging can lead so easily to the collapse of the horizon , it can mean so light that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world breaks apart , but not the way you fear it .
opportunities that wouldn &apos;t have been allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an inconvenient optimism , a strange mixture of humility and wagnity .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a little team of people around me who were going to go for the boxes , &quot; not going to be an inconsistent challenge .
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of a day , i cooked a huge pot soup that we shared .
we worked until late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but it was a few brilliant ones , and we got the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the united states .
after just one journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure continued .
before i close the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin was the most important person .
life had not changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after she was born .
her mother pulled her alone .
at 17 , she became a second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without the support of her husband , she worried for a sensation by bringing him to court and claiming she was in her own case , and a bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go &quot; -- it turned out to be untrue .
i was just shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 kilometers away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall and i saw it stand on the other side .
i knew she had come to goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around her coffin .
we told her stories and insured her that we were still with her .
by midnight , the monk came and said it had to close the coffin .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm , and the rest of you is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because they kept it this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let go of them . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through women .
if you look at who we were and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come into our lives would have come to us .
the defeat would have been too simple .
now i &apos;d like to have my own children , and i think of the boat .
who would ever want one ?
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of legitimacy .
can i give you a bug in your life that drives bold every wave , the uncontributed , steady scarf of the engine , the vast horizon , that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it safe , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos;s mother today is in the fourth or the fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it photography at all ?
because of course , this is a picture you can &apos;t record with your camera .
yet , my interest in photography started when i got my first digital camera at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my earlier preference for drawing , but it was a little different , because when i used the camera , the process was more in planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press it to the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about going in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process begins when the trigger is pushed .
photos like this : a building site along a much more driving road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and still keep a realistic level .
or photos like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but everybody with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like she could have , in a photograph .
photos where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what &apos;s the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is this about the details or the colors ?
is it about light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the illusion is illusion .
but finally , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made on a two-dimensional surface .
it &apos;s not about what &apos;s realistic , it &apos;s about what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all identify with in a three-dimensional world .
but in a certain way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we overlist our brains , because our brains just don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photos .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think they &apos;re the things we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but if we combine photos , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise , they just look wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to make a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but you can combine something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , photos should have the same kind of lighting .
and these two pictures meet these two demands -- shot at the same altitude and the same kind of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to tell where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
make it impossible to say how the photograph was actually put together .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges to individual images , photographic deprivation , like field depth , unseen colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and let them look like a single photograph , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that &apos;s just a landscape picture , and the bottom part was manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of pictures of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew it took me several months to plan it , find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been taken on a jar trip .
the bank is from another place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
and yes , i even colored the house up on the island of red to make it look more swedish .
so to achieve a realistic result , it &apos;s going to be going out from me to planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here &apos;s every piece that &apos;s very well planned .
and then if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and you can also be pretty realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that limics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important point about this is that we stopped talking to our patients .
and one of the things we introduced at biboud university was to hire a major listener .
this is not a particularly scientific way to do it -- she puts a cup of coffee or tea and asks patients , families , relatives , &quot; how &apos;s it going ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems why everybody -- maybe most of the electronic health projects fail , because we stopped listening .
this is my wlan-scale . this is a very simple thing .
she has a button , on / off .
and every morning i jump on that .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i put my job on 95 kilos .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it sends my data to google .
and there they &apos;re also called off my general doctor so he can see where my weight problem is , not only the moment i need cardiological support or something , but also the view of the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
you may know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning i jump on my wlan-scale and people are talking to me before i sit in the car , &quot; for lunch , i &apos;d rather just be a little salad today , lucia . &quot;
but this is the most net thing that can happen because this is the group compulsion , group compulsion , to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could be rejected to patients smoking .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs and get them to play together some kind of game to control their health better .
next week , this is what comes to market .
there will be this little blood pressure measuring device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it &apos;s going to allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor and share it with others , for a little over 100 dollars .
at that point , the patients come in . not only can they take control , captain on their own ship , but can also help us care about the challenges that are ahead of us and the cost explosion of health , double-demand , and so on .
make ways to use of which are easy and start with this one to hug patients on the team .
and they can do that through these methods , but they can also crowdsource .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done is i want to share with you through a quick video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atms are around maastrike .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and of course , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked around , and nobody knew .
nobody knew where to find the next life-saving aed at that moment .
so , what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where it is , &quot; because sometimes it is closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have already been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we designed an ipad app .
we developed an app for layar , augmented reality , to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastrian and somebody collapses , you can use your iphone , and within the next few weeks you can also find your microsoftware cell phone to save the next aed who can save lives .
and today we want to do this not just as aed4u , as the product calls itself , but as aed4us .
and we want to put this on a global scale .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like node points , to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and somebody collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relationship or anyone else , you can find an aed like this .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world help us confirm these aeds .
these might be copying services , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the melted aed is still in its place .
please help us do this and try to not only improve health , but to take your hand .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to report unexpected discoveries .
i work in solar technology .
and my little startup wants us to be able to protect the environment by forcing ...
it &apos;s very crowdsourcing .
here &apos;s a quick video of what we &apos;re doing .
oh . a moment .
it might take a while to get there .
well -- we can just skip that -- i &apos;m just going to skip the video instead ...
no .
this is not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time has been over ?
okay . thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars into technology and design to take time out of time for a year and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much everything they actually hate , we &apos;ve let them work in government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the scorps of peace for geeks .
we choose some fellows every year , and we let them work with urban administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to city users .
and there they developed great apps , worked with urban employees .
but what they really do is show what &apos;s possible with technology today .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who &apos;s freeling him up when he &apos;s screwed in because he knows he &apos;s not very good at fighting when he &apos;s covered by a meter snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
we had a team of fellows in boston last year in charge of the code for america &apos;s program .
they were there in february , and it &apos;s happened a lot last february .
and they realized that the city never sucks up these hydrants .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik michael els-ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents freaked the sidewalks out of front of them .
so he did what any good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you agree with him when he swings .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows have written last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s spreading fast .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. department of the city of honolulu who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago has just introduced them so that people can release the bushes when it swings .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
and it &apos;s spread rightlessly , organic , of course .
when you know about government technology , you know it &apos;s not usually going to happen .
software funding usually takes a few years .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year where three people took two and a half months .
it was about a way that parents can figure out which the right public schools are for their children .
we were told later that if it had been told about the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in the california justice right now that the taxpayers have cost two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a few days and then spread from rare is a kind of shot in front of the government &apos;s institution .
it shows how government could work better -- no longer how a private company , how many people think it should work .
and not even like a tech company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , at this app , it represents a new generation that packs the problem of government -- not as the problem of a salable institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who make the tools we need to effectively tackle things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people around the country who get up and write government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
and these people know something we &apos;ve lost out of our eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the line of work and all the other things we &apos;re really excited about is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do in common that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you that you think about it because things are changing .
politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is changing .
and because the government finally drives its power out of us -- remember , &quot; we the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , it &apos;s going to affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like many people , i thought the government was all about choosing people in an office .
now after two years , i came to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about communities , thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
that &apos;s where you usually get out when you call in your city 311 .
if you ever have the chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman is part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call the government for many different problems , including that there &apos;s a rat in their house .
so scott gets this anfruit .
he types &quot; rat &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see , can the livestock ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- this is what this came in : &quot; thylacine in my trash rate . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens is different .
scott was talking about man to man .
but on citizens connect , it &apos;s all public so everybody can see it .
and in this case , it was a neighbor .
and the next entry we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the waste ton behind the house .
thylacine ? yes . alive ? yap .
turned the garbage ton on the page . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine . &quot;
pretty simple .
that &apos;s great . here &apos;s the digital meets the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to get government crowdsourced .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a definition of the platform here .
i &apos;m more talking about a platform for people to help themselves and help others .
one citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
they connected these two people .
and you could have connected them to state services if they had been needed , but a neighbor is a much better and cheaper alternative to state services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the animal beginner , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we need to think about this is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think that &apos;s one of them &apos;s input .
that our contribution to the system is the choice .
how often did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject , and we expect the government to reflect our values and fulfill our needs , and then we haven &apos;t changed much ?
this is because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15-inch .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use that word with that contempt .
but it &apos;s this contempt that makes this thing that we own and that we pay for , that makes something that works against us , something else , and then we made ourselves up .
people seem to think politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we need to engage in the government machine .
so occupythesean movement did it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of worrying citizens who wrote a very detailed 325 page report that &apos;s an answer to the memo about the financial reform legislation .
this is not political , this is bureaucratic .
well , for those of us who &apos;ve given up government , it &apos;s time to think about the world we want to leave our children .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges they have to face .
do we really believe that we need to do what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it has to get more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to fundamentally remove the function of government in a way that can actually do something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and it knows it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build the right systems .
now the average age of our fellows is 28 , so i , unfortunately , am almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up seeing its voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this fight we &apos;re all fighting for who can talk ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can make your mind , on every channel at any time , and you do it .
so when you &apos;re confronted with the government problem , you don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
this might be to freak up a hydrant , to harbor , to turn a trash can with a rat .
and certainly , we could have shaped these hydrants all the time , and many people do .
but these apps are like small digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government paying taxes and receiving services .
we &apos;re more than that , we &apos;re citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things we need to do together , all together , we &apos;re just going to be a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
my role is to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that have come up will be . and i thought , since i &apos;m here among friends , i would tell you what i really think . and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s really happening here with these incredible jumps forward that are so fast that we can barely keep up .
i &apos;m going to start showing you a single boring slide for a moment .
... could you show the slide for a moment ?
this is a slide i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general shape .
this slide shows data from an analysis of us about risc processors &apos; performance compared to the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like so some of the others we often meet in our field , are a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here is a power in the scale .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange is happening here .
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about .
so if you could turn on the light again .
a little brighter because i &apos;m going to draw something on paper here in a minute .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for that is , if i drew it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , so the timeline of a way , and this is any measure of the technology i want to show with a graph , the graph will be silly .
they then look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i want to record another technology , say , a transportation technology , it would be very irrational on the semi-logarithmic scale .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative circumstances .
so if transportation technology were to move as fast as the microprocessor technology was to move forward , we could get in a taxi tomorrow and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
but that &apos;s not so fast .
this has never been done before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth where the scale is exponentially increasing every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two ways .
either it becomes a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes in , or it will happen here .
it &apos;s about this .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this will happen .
is that really true , then that means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re on this line here , in a transition from the world to a new kind of world .
so the question i want to ask , and i also often ask myself , is how this new world will be ?
what &apos;s this new state that &apos;s starting to take on the world ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing if you &apos;re in the middle .
when i was a child , the future was somewhere in 2000 , and people often talked about what would happen in 2000 .
now we have a conference here where people talk about the future , and you realize the future is still in the year 2000 .
we &apos;re not going to go further than that .
so in other words , the future has shrinked by a year since i &apos;m in the world .
i think the reason for that is that we realize that anything is going on .
the transition happens . we can all feel it .
and we know right now that it just doesn &apos;t make sense to try to look 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple wedding of what we &apos;re doing now just doesn &apos;t make sense of it .
i want to talk about what that might be , that transition we &apos;re in right now .
to do that , i &apos;m going to first talk about some of the other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because i think to really understand this , we need to go back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on the earth &apos;s scale of life .
i think the whole picture makes sense if you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , 2.5 billion years . the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with a lot of chemicals floating on it .
now if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did it .
i also think there are theories that start to understand how everything started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story of this , which is that at that time , there were little oil droplet flowing around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contain a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside , and so on .
all of them were like this started to divide .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form .
but these oil droplet were not about alive in the current sense , because each of them was just a small random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , they &apos;ve spread to inexorable chemicals .
so every droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet that grew up growing more optimal composition than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from outside and divided faster .
so these tends to survive longer , and they multiplied at a greater rate .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but more interesting , when these droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in any way we don &apos;t quite understand , these droplet have learned the ability to write down information .
they learned to store the recipe of the cell as information , and that is in a certain chemical form that we call dna .
in other words , they found a way in this hostile , evolutionary way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
the amazing thing about this is that storing this kind of information over the course of 2.5 billion years that it came out stayed the same .
in fact , the recipe for us , which is our genes , from exactly the same code and the same writing .
and every living thing uses exactly the same letters and the same code .
we &apos;re so far that , just for fun , we can write things about this code ourselves .
and i have 100 micrograms of a white pulver here that i &apos;m trying to keep in airports from security staff .
there &apos;s -- what i &apos;ve done is i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use for symbolizing -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 22 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for anyone in this room and even for everybody in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had been actually a selfish , i would have written it on a virus and released it into space .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the signing of dna was an interesting step .
and that &apos;s what made these cells -- that &apos;s what made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step where things became completely different , which is to start communicating and trading information so that communities could come from cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , consistency is growing into antibiotics .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and have written that information with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because the bacteria communicate with each other .
now this communication allowed communities to be able to happen , in a way , in the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went down together , which meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals in the community were more often repeated and preferred by evolution .
the transition point is now where these communities are so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a sign chain on dna .
and the next interesting stage took about another billion years .
at that point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which act together as a single organism .
in fact , we &apos;re also such a multi-celled community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer put on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities started to evolve , so that the level in which evolution happened was no longer the individual cell , but the whole cell community that we call organism .
the next step was now happening within these communities .
the cell communities started to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started educating specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and holding information .
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at that point , an individual -- learning has now happened within the time of a single organism &apos;s lifespan , rather than about this evolutionary period .
so for example , an organism could learn not to eat a certain fruit because it tasted bad and made it sick that last time he ate it .
this could now happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas hundreds of thousands of years before that were taken , because this information had to be learned evolutionary by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process using these special information structures because evolution could now happen within an individual .
it could happen within a time-learning framework .
what happened then is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
let &apos;s give you an example , the most sophisticated version of this kind of communication is the human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
i have a very complicated , disordered and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here giving basically gruesome sounds of mine , hoping to create a similar confused idea in your head that has a certain similarity to my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the minds of others .
so this allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we actually did , we , humanity , is we started to abstract .
we go through the same levels that several cell organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods of holding data on , presenting .
for example , the invention of language was a small step in that direction .
telephones , computers , video obligations , cd-roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects all of us together to something that &apos;s much bigger , and also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
you also saw tys &apos;s little evolutionary example , where he showed some evolution in the convoltation program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve faded the time scales again .
the first steps in the story i told you took a billion years to play .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took a few hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take just a few decades .
so the process feeds itself , and i think auto-catalyzing is the word for it -- when something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosive curve .
we see the process that feeds on itself .
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i could not use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
my current work is to design objects with such a high complexity that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor is doing in the connection machine .
it has billions of them .
what i do instead , and whatever designers of thinking machines do , is we think at a certain abstraction level , we overgive that to the machine , and the machine does something that overgoes our skills better and faster than we could ever do it ourselves .
and it does it in part with the ways we don &apos;t even understand it right now .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot of times recently , is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re installing an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that evolves from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
now please do all of these randomly chosen instructions , do all the programs , and finally choose those who are next to my giving . &quot;
so in other words , i define first what i want .
let &apos;s say i want to sorrow numbers , which is a simple example i &apos;ve already used .
so find programs that can most care about numbers .
of course , the chance with randomly chosen instructions is very small that they &apos;re sorting numbers by accident , so probably none of the instructions are actually going to do this .
but one of them , with some luck , likes to put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that came to mind .
store them off , delete the rest .
now all the rest of the limbs that have best cared about numbers .
and that is , with a way of recombining , analog to restoring . &quot;
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids inherit the features of the subroutines of the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combining programs that have come a little closer to the preventions than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
rating them again .
lead maybe some mutations .
and i &apos;ll try the whole thing again with another generation .
all of these generations need just a few milliseconds .
and so i can go through evolution in the computer within a few minutes , or more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly sorrow numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
then if i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell how they work .
i tried to understand them .
they &apos;re worn and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know and i &apos;m sure they do the job because they come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because her life depended on whether she did the job right .
i sat in a 747 with marvin minsky , ale he pulled out a map and says , &quot; oh look . look at that .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little parts that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t you make that more confident ? &quot;
we know that an process of development is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that &apos;s very different from classical engineering .
it allows us to produce things with much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t quite understand the possibilities of that yet .
so in a way , we &apos;re overwhelmed by technology .
we &apos;re now using these programs to make computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it &apos;s getting faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all of these new technologies are feeding themselves from themselves today .
we &apos;re going to pick up .
we got to the point where analog is at the time that one cell organisms evolved into multiple cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amebes , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that after us , there &apos;s something else coming .
i think it &apos;s very uplifting to say that we &apos;re the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever &apos;s next .
well , lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i &apos;m elected .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the starry sky in the desert with sufi singers mukhtiar ali .
we talked about how nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian epos mahabharata .
if we wanted to travel indians then , we jumped into a car and swirled across the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
at the time , when the great indian warrior arjuna had thirst , he took an arjuna , shot out into the ground and water came out .
now we &apos;re doing this with drillers and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
i was afraid that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without camera and without tweet to my friends .
i thought technology should make magic possible , not killing .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50 year-old technology became the most magical thing for me .
she became a golden access to a world of pirates and unhappy ships and images of my mind .
i thought of it as holding our sending clocks and cameras of dreaming about it .
they kept us inspired by being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use it to allow magic rather than killing .
at 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a storytelling device that can connect readers around the world .
it can know how to hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings together images and text , and animation , sound and touch .
storytelling always needs more senses .
but what do we do with it ?
i &apos;m just going to go to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
this says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i become a character in the book .
back and forth , a letter for me falls down -- and the ipad knows through gps where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about these possibilities .
i &apos;ve talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magicians and dragons , but the magic of childhood , the ideas we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass i always found quite exciting .
so here you have to tip out the ipad and let the fireflies go .
and they light the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can put into a single murmur .
and so every book here , and every world , it becomes a little murmur that i &apos;m going to put here to the magic device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasybooks have always had maps , but these maps have been static .
this map grows and glows and serves to orient in the rest of the book .
it turns out in other places in the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
also , for me , it &apos;s important to create something that &apos;s indian , but it &apos;s also very time-consuming .
these are the apsaras .
we &apos;ve all heard about fees and nymps , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were trapped in indras for thousands of years in an old bold book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for kids .
a story that &apos;s about new issues , like the environmental crisis .
the environmental crisis , a big problem over the last 10 years , is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in a book interaction , you &apos;re sent to search , you have to go out and collect natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , rocks , tiles and shells .
somehow the kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this is a childhood ritual that &apos;s brought back . you have to go out and take a picture of a flower and tag it in a chapter .
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree inde .
so you actually create a digital collection of photos that you can then put online .
a child in london shows the picture of a food and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a food today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photos that you actually took .
there are a variety of ways that magic connects the world and technology together .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the video of the ipads , and you see , through augmented reality , an animation of elves that appear on a plant in front of the house .
at one point , the screen fills with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we &apos;re all heading towards a world where the natural forces of technology can come closer and approach the magic and technology .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our kids and we get closer to the natural world and the magic , fun and love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time with people in research , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time in social building settlements and places where there &apos;s a lot of hope .
being here at ted , seeing and hearing how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of force .
in the short time here , i realized that ted has an identity .
you can say things here that have impact on the world .
and sometimes when something comes over ted , it gets a meaning and a force that otherwise it doesn &apos;t have .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that a teacher &apos;s words matter , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good . but as a caring doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn this in my work , by the way , as a lawyer .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african-american household dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a reef , strong woman , she had an impact .
she had the last word in every family argument .
she was also the starting point of many disputes in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
her parents were born as slaves in virginia in the 1840s .
it was born in 1880 , and the experience of slavery formed its world &apos;s image very much .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
if i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she hit me so hard i could barely breathe , then let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again . when i said yes , she left me alone .
she was something that did that you always wanted to be close to her .
the only problem with this was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running around everywhere .
i remember i have to have been eight or nine , that i woke up one morning and went to the living room , all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room staring at me .
first of all , i thought this was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this was 15 or 20 minutes . then she got up and she came over to me . she took me over , and she said , &quot; come , bryan . you and i , we need to talk . &quot;
i remember it was yesterday .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me out to say , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you don &apos;t say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honey ? &quot; i said , &quot; yeah . &quot;
she sat down and looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know i &apos;ve seen you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re a special thing . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you only have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; first of all , i &apos;m going to forget you &apos;re going to love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you &apos;re always going to take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yeah , oma , i &apos;ll do that . &quot;
then she said , &quot; next thing i &apos;ll leave you with is that you &apos;re going to do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do is do the right thing .
i thought about it and i said , &quot; yeah , grandmother . i promise it . &quot;
finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise is , &quot; you &apos;re never going to drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yeah , oma . i promise . &quot;
i grew up on land , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , my brother came home one day and brought this sixth pack beer with my sister and me and went to the forest with us .
we were just silent around the world .
then he took a beat of beer and offered my sister one , and she assumed , and then they offered one to me .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . ok . just do . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , do . we do that today , you do everything we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go ahead and drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? now drink something . &quot;
then he looked at me in the face and said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re still not doing you crazy because of the conversation with grandmother ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren that they &apos;re special . &quot;
i was destroyed .
i &apos;m going to give you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t do that .
this may be public transported .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i &apos;m standing there that i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous , i &apos;m saying that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would tell all her grandchildren they &apos;re special .
my grandfather was in prison during prohibition .
my uncles died of alcohol induced diseases .
and she believed that these were the issues we need to take care of .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prison and in prison .
today there are 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are on proven or with conditional punishment .
i think mass incarcerations have fundamentally changed our world .
in social weak and black parts of the population there are despair and hopelessness because of these changes .
one out of three male black between 18 and 30 is in prison , leaving currency or using conditional criminal justice .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black men are either in prison , in prison , in currency or in conditional punishment .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racism , it &apos;s also challenged by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that treats them much better if they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
yet we seem to be quite happy with that .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we lost the contact .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
my home state of alabama permanently pulls them the right to vote when they &apos;re convicted of punishment .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population have permanently lost their right to vote .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil rights will be as high as before the election of election rights .
the silence is ears anesthetizing .
i represent kids .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world convicted of three-ten-year-old children to death in prison .
in this country , there &apos;s a life sentence for kids who don &apos;t have conditional punishment .
we &apos;ve had a lot of cases going on .
the only country in the world .
i represent people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we think , because we &apos;ve been taught to die of crimes , the real question is , did a human being deserve to die of crimes ?
that &apos;s a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently depending on how we see our identity .
the other way of looking at it is not , did somebody deserve death for a crime , but : did we deserve to kill ?
i find that fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people we executed , one of the people we found for innocent is one that was deposited and unleashed from the death row .
an amazing error rate . one out of nine innocent .
i find that fascinating .
we would never let anyone fly an airplane if for nine planes who were to pick up , one would fall off .
but somehow , we can get off this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we have the right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american story . i &apos;m talking about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time at the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for the african-american in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that formed your life .
these older people are coming up to me now and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you talk , you give talks . you tell people to stop saying we have to do it for the first time in our nation &apos;s history with terrorism after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell the people we grew up with this . &quot;
and after terrorism , of course , the racism and decades of racally-motivated submission and apartheid .
and yet , in our country , there &apos;s a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
and so we don &apos;t really understand what the meaning of our actions are in the historical context .
we &apos;re constantly bumping each other .
we &apos;re always creating new tensions and conflicts .
we &apos;re having a hard time talking about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that the race is not to overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i &apos;ve given some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; there &apos;s no death penalty in germany .
and of course , it can never be there in germany anymore . &quot;
it got silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we ever pronounce ourselves for systematic killing people .
it would be unconscious of us to consciously and targeted people . &quot;
i thought about it .
what it would feel like to live in a world where the german state left people to , especially if there were a lot of jews below that .
it would be intractable .
it would be unconscious .
and yet , here in this country , in the old south states , we &apos;re focusing on people -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of death , 11 times higher when the victim is white than if it &apos;s black . 22 times higher when the charged black is and the victim knows -- in the same states where the body is yellow people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these hard topics , the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but finally , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , decrease .
i think it seems important to unite both .
because we &apos;re talking about it finally , that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment to be able to exist in a complex world .
for me , it means bringing time to think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but thinking in a way that &apos;s integrated into our own lives .
we all need to believe in the end things we can &apos;t see .
we do . we &apos;re as rational as we are , appreciate intellect .
innovation , creativity , development , is not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by the belief in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection that i think is driving us to be not only open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great chief politician , once said .
when we fought against oppression in eastern europe , we wanted to be able to do all kinds of things , but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes hopeless places and witness .
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities also need to engage in this .
there &apos;s no boundary for technology and design that allows us to be fully human , as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , border and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it &apos;s going to touch you deeply .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
ms. parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she trafted two of her oldest friends . these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery-boycott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white one whose husband , cliffdurr , dr. king represented .
so these women met , and they just talked .
off and then , woman carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yeah , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do when you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so winding .
one day i was sitting there listening to these women , and after a few hours , ms. parks turned to me around us said , &quot; now bryan , tell me what the initiative is for the same right . &quot;
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
i started my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to go against injustice .
wr wants to help people who were convicted of innocent .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to eliminate life penalty without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about the death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to degrade mass incarcerations . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and then she looked at me and said , &quot; mhmm . mmm . &quot;
she said , &quot; she &apos;s going to do very , very tired . &quot;
then ms. carr leaned up to me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and that &apos;s why you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and so i think the ted community should be takers .
we need to find ways to face these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because finally , our humanity depends on our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a few very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst thing we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human on the planet .
when somebody lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
if somebody takes something they don &apos;t hear , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even if you kill somebody , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because that is , there &apos;s a fundamental human dignity that needs to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and with security in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i think in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i think even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so exciting , we &apos;re not measured in our technology , not in the things we &apos;re developing , not in our intellect and our minds .
finally , a society is not measured in how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but in how they deal with the poor , convicted the incarcerated .
because in this context , we &apos;re just starting to understand the really amazing things that are happening to us .
sometimes i lose the balance , a story finally .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas hurry ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard punishment .
i go to research prison and visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , who is supposed to be an adult in court .
then i wonder : how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn somebody into something they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as adults , but i see a child .
one night i stayed up too long and thought , my goodness , if a judge could turn us into something else , he must have magicians .
right , bryan , the judge has forces .
you should wish them too .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think that anymore , i started working on a post .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started this ad . the headline was , &quot; mission to treat my poor , 14-year-old black client like a privileged to treat white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my contract , i explained that misbehavior was about state whale and police and risk errors .
there was a crazy line about how this country doesn &apos;t do anything anymore , that there &apos;s only misbehavior .
the next morning i woke up and didn &apos;t know if i had just dreamed this crazy post or actually written it .
and not only had i written him to the court , but i had sent him to the court .
a few months ago , they were going on , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to court and do this crazy case .
i got in the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought it was so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase to the court .
when i got up the court staircase , there was an elderly , black man who was the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yeah . &quot;
he came up to me and hugged me .
then he whispered in my ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something very deeply inside me , identity , the ability of each one , to contribute to a community , to a view of hope .
well , i went to the courtroom .
once the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you hire this crazy ad ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yeah . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in , just because they were angry .
i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and deputy state lawyers and office workers .
in the handshake was full of people who were angry that we talked about skin color , we talked about poverty , we talked about inequality .
from my eye angle , i looked up and down at the janitor .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear all the tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came into the courtroom with a very concerned facial call and sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
10 minutes later , the judge announced a break .
at the break , a police officer came in that it was disturbing that the janitor was in the courtroom .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courtroom ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i came here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal from the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i came to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is expanding a lot , but it &apos;s increasing justice .
that we &apos;re not completely evolved as humans , as long as we don &apos;t care about human rights and basic values .
that our all survival of all of us is connected to the survival of each one .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity to humanity , of pity and of justice .
and most of all , i want to just say to those of you who also see this , just say , don &apos;t lose your goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen in this audience , this community , an obvious desire , and you &apos;ve heard about helping and doing something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , there &apos;s a national decision in that spring that &apos;s about actually trying to do an effort to redeploy some of the money that otherwise flows to the politics of punishment .
here , for example , in california , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to be spending a billion dollars on death penalty . a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all deadlistments end up not with arrest .
56 percent of all rapes don &apos;t come to court .
here &apos;s the chance to do something .
this talk will suggest that we can invest money in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined .
that fact is often put into context with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you tell someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country was not really in the class of violent crime .
it was the misled cruise against drugs .
so the dramatic high numbers come to prison inmates .
we sat down by the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have three stories that people bring behind bars forever for a bike theft , for the theft , are doing less good , rather than forcing them to give things back to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who &apos;ve become victims of a criminal ward , not less .
and i think our philosophy now helps nobody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string vibrate here .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you .
bin laden &apos;s death brings an increased risk of driving .
famine in somalia . speaker 3 : police pepper spray .
four : bad cartelle . five : dangerous cruise ships .
six : social failure . 7 : 65 deaths .
tsunami warning . 9 : cyberattacks .
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . still . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- it could have been the last six days . or the last six years .
in fact , the media prefer to show us negative issues because our minds are paying attention to these topics .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for this .
every second every day , our senses are much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we &apos;re not doing anything more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it sorts and cheats all the information in search of any ambition of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old saying , &quot; when it bleeding , the demand &quot; is very true .
well , with all our digital devices , which are seven days a week , putting all these negative messages 24 hours a day , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe the enormous progress that we &apos;ve made is accelerating through a series of forces in the last century so much that we can create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
well , i &apos;m not saying we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity dying , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in a very long time , but we finally overcome them .
let &apos;s look at what we &apos;ve done in the last century so we can predict the development .
in the last 100 years , average life expectancy has doubled , which adapted to inflation in the world &apos;s population has tripled .
child mortality has reduced by a tenth of a child mortality .
and also , the food , electricity transportation and communication costs have reduced by a lot of times .
steve pinker showed us that we &apos;re living in a very peaceful time in human history .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the last 130 years .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and many people forget this .
and we &apos;re constantly increasing our expectations .
in fact , we redefined poverty .
remember that a large percentage of americans living under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tv , mobile phones , air conditioners and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the imperators of the earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of many of them forms technologies , and they grow expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes an information technology is going to be on the curve of moore &apos;s law , and the price performance quotient is doubling every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less , and is a thousandfold faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
that &apos;s moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things in this curve .
first , how smooth it goes -- in good times , like in bad times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it &apos;s not slowing down for any of our big problems .
and also , despite their logarithmic course on the left , it &apos;s going up .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to everybody .
cloud-computing , something my friends at autodesk call infinity-computing , sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow personal production on our planet to democratize , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
that was grandiose .
i once did the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson forces human enemy . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence available to every owner of a mobile phone .
four years ago , ray kurzweil started , and i &apos;m here at ted is a new university called singularity university .
we teach our students all of these technologies , with special focus on how to use them to solve the big challenges of humanity .
and every year we ask the students to create companies , products and services that can positive in a decade of people &apos;s lives .
think about a group of students today being able to influence the lives of billions of people .
30 years ago , this would have sound ridiculous .
today we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; i &apos;m about creating a life of opportunity .
it &apos;s about creating excess out of scarce goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource liberating force .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iii.t. in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon soldiers got silver bribe , napoleon himself got golden bribe .
but the king of siam got aluminum brick .
aluminum was the most valuable metal on the planet at that time , more valuable than gold and platin .
that &apos;s why the dome of the washington monument was made from aluminum .
although aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t think of as pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum production so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy collide every 88 minutes on the surface of the earth .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
that year , you managed to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar energy was 50 percent last year .
last month , this published with a study that shows that by the end of this decade in the sunny areas of the united states , solar energy per kwh will cost six cents a national average compared to 15 cents .
and if we have an energy overload , we &apos;re going to have water abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
do you remember when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 when it passed saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what did he mean ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered in water .
yeah , there &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are failed , and we &apos;re fighting about 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but here &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
they &apos;re new nanotechnes on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you -- he gave me permission -- his engineering called the slingshot , and many of you may have heard about it . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the student &apos;s home .
it can create a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of this for less than two cents a gallon .
the head of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in the developing world .
and if everything is going well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology support innovation that &apos;s available today .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
oh my goodness , we &apos;re going to reach the 70 percent decrease rate of mobile phones in developing countries by the end of 2013 .
just remember that a masai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan 25 years ago .
and if you look at your smartphone on google , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton did 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication abundance , as nobody could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things you and i &apos;ve spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries full of books and music , technology to medical diagnostics -- are literally now dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is probably what we expect in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing the qualates foundation called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams around the world to connect all these technologies together in a cell phone so that you can talk to the device because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test cleaners or your blood values .
and to win , the device has to diagnose a better diagnosis than a team of highly skilled doctors .
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health care workers .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the health agency and prevents a pandemic from their outbreak .
but now , the biggest force that &apos;s going to lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the next billion . &quot;
the white lines represent population .
we just passed the seven-billion-dollar brand .
and by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and food explosion in the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two billion to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds we &apos;ve never heard of before will join global communication .
what do these people need ?
what are they going to consume ? what are they going to want ?
and instead of economic standstill , i see one of the greatest economic shops in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to get healthier using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to get trained better through the khan-academy , and by using it , they &apos;re going to have the ability to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and be so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
what about a sentence of new , never before deaf .
what about giving the oppressed wherever you are , a voice , to pay attention and create change for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
what about contributions we can &apos;t even predict ?
one of the things i learned through the x prize is that small teams who are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really excelled me .
there &apos;s a program that some people may know about .
it &apos;s a game called folan .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to study how the protein will evolve .
depending on his behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this has been a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
and there are now hundreds of thousands of people playing the game online .
and it showed that today , human pattern recognition is better folding the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who was the best protein folder in the world , this wasn &apos;t a co-professor , it wasn &apos;t a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as a business director in a reha-clinic during the day , working the best protein instructor in the world at night .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future , is the fact that we have more power than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new heads that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a few extraordinary decades .
thank you .
i think we need to do something about a changing piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and i am .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in business for a long time enough , as if i can give up a piece of my own wrong prestice to allow this to happen .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season , and we &apos;re moving to the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
moneyball appears soon , and it &apos;s about statistics and using them to use a great baseball team .
i &apos;m going to get into a statistic that i hope most of you have heard about .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 if a bat beat 300 .
that means the player certainly beats three out of 10 beats .
that means beat the ball into the outdoor , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and who tried to throw the ball to first base didn &apos;t do it in time , and the runner was in security .
three out of 10 .
do you know what &apos;s called a 3,000 in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe a star star .
do you know what &apos;s called a 4,00ter ?
that &apos;s somebody who &apos;s safe from 10 , by the way .
legendary -- as ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player to meet over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s go back to my medical world , where i feel much more comfortable or maybe a little less comfortable after i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blindness , and you &apos;re transmitted to an operator whose average power is 400 in terms of blindness .
somehow , it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved people with clogged heart disease vessels , and your homedoctor overpoints them to a cardiologist whose average performance is in vascular imaging at 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow , it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
what do you think of as the average performance of a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker should be a rescue ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be in all medicine .
but what we do is we include each of them , including me , sent out into the world with the claim to be perfect .
never make a mistake , but nobody cares about the details of how to do that .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a obsessive student .
in high school , once a student said that brian goldmann would learn for a blood test .
and it was .
and i learned in my little dairy at the sisters residence at the toronto hospital , not far from here .
i learned everything memorized .
in my anatomy lecture , i learned the origins and executives of every muscle , every branch of any artery that goes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnoses .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renale tubustorre azican .
and i collected more and more knowledge all the time .
and i was good , i graduated with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything memorized and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , i was as close to complete as possible that i was immune to making mistakes .
and it worked for a while until i met women printer .
i resisted at a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman printer to me to the hospital emergency department .
at that point , i was approved to the cardiological layer in the cardiological service .
and it was my mission when the emergency staff were looking for cardiological advice to study the emergency patient .
and to give feedback to my upper doctor .
i studied ms. drucker , and she was in respiratory .
and when i listened to her , she made keen sounds .
and when i listened to her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides that told me she was suffering from congestion heart failure .
this is a state where the heart fails , instead of pumping all the blood , some of the blood is stuck in the lung , and filling it gradually , so the shorthand came .
and that wasn &apos;t a hard diagnosis to end .
i put them on and i went to treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine that we call diuretics , water pills , so that they leave the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started feeling better about himself .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent it home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent her home without talking to my doctor .
i didn &apos;t take the listener and do what i should have done , which would have been a call to my supreme doctor to tell him that he had had a chance to take a picture of his own .
and he knew him , he would have been able to contribute additional information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the aid doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that i was acting like this , and so i would be able to power my patients without having to contact them .
my second mistake was worse .
so that i sent them home , i missed a quiet voice in me that was trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , no good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
i was so wrong about self-security that i asked the nurse , who cared about women printers , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the discharges and a ambulance and rescue assistants came home and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the night i had this nasty feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my things , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to drive home with the car when i did something i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went home through the emergency department .
and there was another nurse who said not the sister who had seen after woman printers , but another three words to me , and these three words fear most emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are also afraid of this , but emergency medicine is particularly special because we see the patients just so volatile .
the three words say , remember ?
&quot; remember the patient you sent home ? &quot;
asked the nurse expertly .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular pitch .
so she was back .
she was back and she was dying .
about an hour after she arrived at home after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency station with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock state .
she was barely breathing , and she was walking blue .
the emergency workers moved all the strands .
they gave their blood pressure up .
they locked them on the beating machine .
i was shocked and pulled inside .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because she came to intensive care after the stabilization , and i hoped she was going to recover .
and after two , three days , it realized that it was never going to wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they got the idea .
the other day they were going -- ms. drucker , a woman , a mother and a grandmother .
it &apos;s said that you never forget the names of those who die .
and this was the first time i learned this myself .
for the next few weeks , i proposed , and i learned the first time myself the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt myself , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel about it , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s price , even though it sworms you up on authority and then you get caught and the best friend confronts you with it and leads you a terrible discussion , when you end up with the bad conscience , and you swear that you never make such a mistake again .
if you do review and you never make the mistake again .
that &apos;s the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about is the one who makes you sick in the first place .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is you &apos;ve done bad , but you &apos;re bad .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my supreme doctor , he was very loved .
he talked to the family , and i &apos;m sure he smoked the wounds and made sure i wasn &apos;t sued .
but i kept asking myself about these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the doctor ? why did i send her home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly but surely , it came .
i started feeling better .
and then on a windy day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i might feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts to perfect , and never ever again made a mistake that the voice could silence .
and she did .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency station in a communal hospital north of toronto , and i reviewed a 25-year-old man with mature rays .
it was a lot going on and i was in iron .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the rake , and it was a little pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him on .
and even when he went out of the door , he pointed to his rake .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my boarman asked me to talk to her office .
and she said the three words : remember you ?
&quot; do you remember the patient with the traveled rage ? &quot;
it turns out he &apos;s a streptococon infection .
he had a potentially lifelike disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of racing , it &apos;s the upper respiratory path and it causes the interrogation of breathing .
and luckily , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenues antibotica , and he recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , and i felt liberated and went to work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency class , i overlooked twice a blind darker .
there &apos;s a lot of stuff about it , especially if you think you &apos;re working in a hospital that had only 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there was probably no lack in their treatment .
one thought i had kidney stones .
i ordered the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that was without evidence , my colleague noticed a hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had a strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluide to rehydrate him , and i asked my colleagues to also rehydrate him .
and he did , and when he found a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , surgery worked , and they were doing well .
both cases grabbed me , ask me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistakes only happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues said , but total nonsense .
some of my clips have happened over the last five years .
alone , shameful and without support .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t close my mistakes and talk about them , if i can &apos;t talk about the quiet voice that tells me what &apos;s really not going to happen , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach you my mistakes so they don &apos;t do the same ?
if i put myself in a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when did you hear the last time from somebody who talked about failing about failing ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you may hear about any other doctor , but you &apos;re not going to hear about somebody else &apos;s own mistakes .
if i had to go into a room full of colleagues and ask them their immediate support and find me to tell you what i just told you , i would very likely not reach the end of the second story before it really would uncomfortable , anyone would come up with a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i or my colleagues knew that an orthopedic in my hospital had taken off the wrong leg , believe me , i had problems looking into his eyes .
this is the system we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of mistakes .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- those who make mistakes and those who don &apos;t make them , those who limit sleep deprivation and those who don &apos;t have any limitation , who have bad results and good results .
it &apos;s almost an ideological response like antibodies that attack a human being .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we banish those who make mistakes from medicine , we &apos;re a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my about 20 years of medical sensuality and journalism , i created a personal medical study on medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for one of my first articles , which i wrote for the toronto star to my show &quot; white coat , black way . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inconvenient .
we &apos;re working in a system where mistakes are happening every day where one of 10 medications is either a false or a wrong dose where hospital infections are getting always and getting more and more numerous and more devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of conventional mistakes .
in the united states , the institute of medicine is reaching 100,000 .
both of them are strong underfueling because we don &apos;t look at the problem as well as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
in a hospital system where the medical system doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up with it .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error so that we can take a perfect disease course for a patient with chest pain .
then i take the same patient with chest pain , i sweat it and i wash it and i add another slightly alcoholized breath to it , and suddenly the story is replaced with contempt .
i &apos;m not taking the same course .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i don &apos;t always do things in the same way .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this summarizes are inevitable .
so if you take the system the way i &apos;ve been taught , and you care of all the miserable health experts , there &apos;s no one left .
and do you know the ladders about people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would go from rescue to the chief of the cardiologists to say , &quot; this is my worst mistake , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , what about you ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show him the microphone .
and then their pupills expand , they came in in front of their head , and then they look down and swallow , and they start telling their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what they need is an environment that puts them in the position of that .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a human being , white to his humanity , accepted her , is not proud of making mistakes , but putting everything on it all out of them so it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it supports others talking about their mistakes .
and it shows others their mistakes , not to blog , but in a loving , supportive way , so that everybody wins .
and she &apos;s working in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that &apos;s the way people make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system is evolving to create backups , which make it easier to do , which is to make people inevitable , and also allows them to create supportive spaces where anyone who sees health care can actually address things that are potential mistakes and actually reward them for it , and that especially for people like me who make mistakes and should be rewarded for gratifying these spaces .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the newly defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human being . i make mistakes .
but i regret myself , but i &apos;m trying to learn best to pass it on to others .
i don &apos;t know what you &apos;re holding , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about changing standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was chasing , but that &apos;s not true .
in fact , he collected fish .
he described one of them as very &quot; common . &quot;
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
this is a story we &apos;ve heard many times about the galapagos islands , or other places , and it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we &apos;re still getting to the galapagos islands .
we still think they &apos;re primal .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to show another concept that &apos;s changing wavelengths .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work later in africa .
i thought i could integrate .
and i got a bad sunburn and i was convinced i didn &apos;t really come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the palms lagoon and some mangroves were surrounded .
there were about 20 inches of colorful , black mouth breeders , a subset of colorful federal barbs .
the fish reasons of these bunk barrels were very productive , and the fishermen lived well and deserved well in ghana .
when i returned to that 27 years later , the fish had shrinked to half its size .
they grew up to five centimeters .
they had been genetically suppressed .
they were still fish .
people were still happy .
and the fish were also lucky to be there .
so it hasn &apos;t changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story tells me about my compassion in introducing the trawl net fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- more in the early &apos; 60s -- europe funded a lot of development projects .
fish promotion meant countries that started already 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing of this pretty ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
i went to mit , and we made inhibitors all over the southern china sea and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
i know now that was the reason of the ocean .
90 percent of our start was sponges , other animals that are connected to the bottom .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the trash , the trash pile , were coral reefs fish .
basically , the bottom of the ocean came on deck and then thrown back .
these pictures are extraordinary because the transition is very quick .
within a year , you take an uplift and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . out of -- in this case , a hard reason or soft coral , matching crap is becoming more matching .
this is a dead turtle .
they weren &apos;t eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
once we started a living .
she wasn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of trusses is accumulated every time by fishermen go to areas where they &apos;ve never been fished .
it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our standards to the new level and we don &apos;t remind ourselves of what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it changes . it changes , because for people , their actions are completely natural .
every generation looks at the images they record at the beginning of their conscious lives as standard and will derive all of it .
the difference is then seen as a loss .
but they don &apos;t think the previous losses are true .
there can be a order of changes .
and at the end , you just want to get the inheritable remains .
that &apos;s exactly what we &apos;re trying to do now .
we want to get things that are gone or things that are no longer as they were .
now you might think that the problem is people who certainly lived in predator societies killed animals and became aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that was very common becomes rare first before it dies .
so you don &apos;t lose any animals that are coming in a lot .
you always lose rare animals .
and so it &apos;s not seen as a great loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the big animals , and in the sea , these are the big fish .
they get less rare because we catch them .
over time , there &apos;s a little fish left , and we think that &apos;s worth standards .
the question is , why do people accept this ?
well , because they don &apos;t know it was different .
of course , a lot of people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it because the evidence of how they do it in an earlier form is not the way they would like to show the evidence .
there &apos;s , for example , the anecdote that a captain &apos;s report in this area can &apos;t be used , can &apos;t be used , or by fishing scientists don &apos;t usually be acquired because it &apos;s not scientific .
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
that shows the enormous role that a marine protected area can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we &apos;re making the past that people can &apos;t understand because the standards have changed and are very low .
so the people who see a marine protected area and benefit from the insight that allows them to restore their standards .
what about the people who don &apos;t do that because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think the art and the movie can maybe fill the gap and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
there were gray whales a long time ago -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and the shades you may remember &quot; avatar . &quot;
when you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; when you think about why people were so touched by it -- except for the pocahoney story , why were they so touched by the imagery world ?
because it calls something that &apos;s been lost in some way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is about cameron , about turning &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a leaf with precedent text from this typewriter .
the reason for that is that the government could track where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , and they could detect the creator of these thoughts .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anyone could do this , and how much that would limit freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color printer today in 2011 from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , this page has revealed bright yellow spots on every page , in a pattern that clearly leaves the page back to you and their printer .
that &apos;s what &apos;s happening to us today .
and nobody seems to get up about that .
and this was an example in which our own governments are using the technology against us , the citizens .
and this is one of the three main sources of what existing online problems are today .
let &apos;s see what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can divide the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , here &apos;s mr. dimitry golubow from kiev in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires that have made their money through attacks .
this is wladier tsadsin from tartu in estonia .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watt .
bjvillan sundin .
these are matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they &apos;ve acquired it illegal by using , for example , trojans to steal money from our bank accounts as we do our online banking , or also keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information from the keyboard while we buy over an infected computer online .
the american intelligence agency fror two months ago was the swiss account by mr. sam jain here , and in this account , 14.9 million dollars were frozen when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free foot , the uprising place is unknown .
and i &apos;m saying that today it &apos;s more likely that we &apos;re going to become victims of an online crime than one crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is only going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes will be online .
the second largest group we can see today is not driven by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , like , an opinion or through their audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the online field of attacks .
so these are the three main groups : criminals who do it for money , hackactivists like anonymous who do it , but the last group is nations , governments who lead attacks .
we &apos;re dealing with cases like diginotar .
it shows precise what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a full makeup certificate from the netherlands -- or it was .
last fall , it had to sign insolves because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a dutch government meeting , i asked one of the senior of this group the question of whether he could make it possible that people had died because of the diginotar hack .
and his answer was yes .
now , how do people die in the wake of such hacks ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
well , a certificate is needed if you have a website with https , with ssl-encrypted services , like gmail .
now we &apos;re all using , or many of us , gmail or one of their competitors , but these services are particularly common in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail because they know that they can trust them more than local providers , and that they &apos;re encrypted over ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversation .
but you can do it if you &apos;re in a foreign foreign .
certification agencies hack and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened in the case of diginotar .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
well , in egypt , the insurgency in april 2011 was the headquarters of the egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of records .
in these records , a folder named &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , notes were a local company selling a few programs to the egyptian government that they could -- in very large scale -- to any communication of egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so western governments power totalitarian governments with tools to do it against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strojer found , which was a trojan used by german government officials to occupy their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , pretty much safe is tapped into your phone .
but today we &apos;re way beyond that .
they tap their internet connection .
they use tools like the state strojer to deal with their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , listen to their online discussions , collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about these things , the obvious answer would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry !
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and this argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy has to be given .
privacy is not the debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
and as we trust our governments today , in 2011 , every right we give up is given away forever .
and do we trust blindly of any future government , any government we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions we need to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blockages .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 and devised a simple idea : module from cement with determined measurements that fit together .
concrete building blocks became the most used building unit in the world very quickly .
they put us in the position of building things that were bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it was called the automatically connected rock .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s been estimated that over 400 billion rocks were produced -- or 75 rocks for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego has basically taken the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a little plastic unit that would bring us from a world of static , interconnected building blocks to a world where everything was going to be interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a big difference : the transistor was just experts .
i personally accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started developing little-life .
let me show you how they work .
littingness is electronic module that has specific function .
they &apos;re preferred to be light , sound , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
so you can &apos;t put them wrong .
the stones are colored .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cables .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green one , and you can build very quickly larger circles .
they put a blue one on a green one , and they can make light .
they can put a switch in between , and so they &apos;ve created a little dimmer .
take out the switch to put out a pulsmodule , which is here , and they made a little blind .
add that buzzer for an extra effect , and they &apos;ve made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlife is actually quite powerful .
instead of coding , wiring or solving , littviits allows them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow the flash , just turn on this button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littviits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
we want to put every single interaction in the world into a useful rock .
lights , sound , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed little-life to children , and you can see them playing with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics that surround you in everyday life and that you don &apos;t learn in school ?
how , for example , a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator stay open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought little-life to design schools .
so for example , we had designers with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littviits as a material .
here we see , with filming , paper and water bottles , like georges ...
a few weeks ago , we brought littviits at risd , and we gave them to some designers who had no technical experience -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
here &apos;s an example of a project they did , a movable confetti cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a play-dough hummer that &apos;s afraid in the dark .
for these non-engineers , littviits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available to all of them .
so littviits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design curtains and make them yourself .
we want the world of creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing them .
thank you .
